
Introduction to Andrew College<<<SECTION>>>

Historical Roots:
The Andrew College charter is the second oldest charter in the United
States for giving an educational institution the right to confer degrees upon
women. The college opened in 1854 as a four-year college known as Andrew
Female College. It was named in honor of Bishop James O. Andrew, who was
responsible for the founding of the Methodist Episcopal Church, South. In
1856 Bishop Andrew came to Cuthbert to dedicate the school to “the service
of God.”
During the period of the Civil War, classes were held in town and the
College buildings and facilities were used as Hood Hospital. In 1866 the
school included in its curriculum a course in physical training, the first such
course to be required of women in the U.S. Then, in 1892, the existing
Andrew Female College buildings burned; however, funds were raised
immediately by the people of Cuthbert, and “Old Main,” the present
administration building, was constructed. Warren Bush Hall, the first
classroom building, was constructed in 1900 and Cuthbert Hall was
constructed in 1912, thereby joining “Old Main” and Warren Bush into one
unit. In 1917, Andrew College became a two-year college. Because it was still
offering preparatory programs, it remained a member of the Southern
Association of Secondary Schools. Andrew remained a college serving only
women until 1956, when it became coeducational.
A period of expansion began in 1948 with the construction of the
original Pitts Library. Patterson Hall was built in 1961, Rhodes Hall in 1963,
and the Parker Physical Education Building in 1966. The year of 1967 brought
construction of the new Pitts Library, Mitchell Hall, and the remodeling of the
original library into the Suarez Fine Arts Building. In January of 1984, The
Don Abbott Turner Dining Hall opened, and in 1985, the Charlotte and Idus
Rhodes Science and Computer Center were completed. In September 1986,
the Jinks Physical Education Complex was opened. A new three-story
residence hall, the Fort Building, was completed in 1999 and the Phyllis and
Jack Jones Chapel in 2001. In 2007, the intramural field was dedicated and
renamed to Jimmy and Crispin Gilbert Field in honor of their longtime service
to Andrew College.
Andrew College opened the Berryman Ceramics Studio on College
Street in 2017. Two buildings on the Square were purchased; one to be used
as a music building. The other, 80 Peachtree, is used as a reception area. Two
more buildings on College Street have been donated for College use. In 2017,
Andrew College began a B.S. in Business Administration and ADN. for
nursing students.
<<<SECTION>>>

Mission:
As a two-year, university-parallel, church-related college, Andrew exists
to provide for typical students "a better beginning" for their college careers.
Andrew specializes in the education of freshmen and sophomores and with the
addition of the BSBA, juniors and seniors. Andrew College students enjoy the
particular advantages of a small, residential campus. Students are afforded the
opportunity to develop and demonstrate, in their freshman and sophomore
6

years, participatory and leadership skills that many times would be delayed at
larger senior institutions. As a United Methodist related institution, the faculty
is concerned with the spiritual as well as with the intellectual development of
students.
Mission Statement:
Andrew College - the United Methodist beacon of educational,
spiritual, and cultural uplift to Southwest Georgia since 1854 –
prepares students for lives of servant leadership and purpose through
higher education that is relevant to its region and beyond.<<<SECTION>>>

Philosophy:
In keeping with its Christian heritage, Andrew College provides an environment
which prepares students for further study and enables them to understand themselves as
persons of responsibility and potential within the global community. Andrew College is
non-sectarian and its services are open without regard to race, gender, ethnicity, creed, or
economic status.
<<<SECTION>>>

Vision:
Andrew College will prepare a new generation of Christian leaders who
are characterized by intellectual excellence, moral integrity, global responsibility,
and holiness of heart and life.
Graduates will:
 Be successful in their pursuit of an associates or a baccalaureate degree
 Have developed a sense of activism and civic responsibility
 Have an appreciation of the differences in the world around them
 Have an understanding of their spiritual life integrated with their daily life
Therefore the character of our academic life will be:
1. A strong emphasis on transformative, active learning experiences in
and out of the classroom
2. A focus on student outcomes, with particular attention to the
development of:
 Strong communication skills (oral and written)
 Critical and analytical thinking skills
 A broad understanding of global issues
 An appreciation for diversity
 An ability to integrate information across disciplines
 Application of knowledge
 A foundation for making moral and ethical decisions
 Civic responsibility
 Environmental res pons ibility
3. A commitment to creating an intimate learning environment
characterized by high quality student/faculty interactions through:
 Small classes
 Innovative pedagogy
 Internships and service learning experiences
 International study experiences
 Lectures, concerts, art shows, field experiences
7



Sophomore and senior culminating experiences

The Student Life Program supports the academic program by providing
services needed by students that will help them to be successful and that
will enhance their total educational experience. It will be:
1. Where there is an environment that is safe and that is supportive of
the academic purpose
2. Where there are opportunities and programs for students to learn
and grow beyond the traditional classroom
3. Where students have the opportunity to gain leadership skills and abilities
4. Where student success and retention are increasing
5. Where students can experience both domestic and international
travel experiences<<<SECTION>>>

College Imperatives and Goals:
In keeping with the College's mission and philosophy, Andrew College has
established six imperatives and related goals that will encompass and guide all
services and programs of the institution. These imperatives and goals are as
follows:
Imperative I - Academic, Spiritual, and Cultural Development
Goal 1: To provide opportunities for intellectual, social, and spiritual
development
Goal 2: To provide a curriculum that parallels that of four-year colleges and
universities
Goal 3: To provide an effective program of learning support designed to help each
student to overcome academic weaknesses determined through an
effective assessment process
Goal 4: To provide systematic encouragement of academically talented and gifted
students to develop their potential to the fullest extent through an honors
program, research opportunities, and similar activities
Goal 5: To provide for promotion of the physical conditioning and well-being of
students through the provision of physical education activity courses
designed to condition the body as well as the provision of intercollegiate
and intramural athletic programs for both male and female students.
Goal 6: To provide cultural enrichment programs that encourages students to
appreciate the arts
Goal 7: To provide the opportunity to learn leisure time skills that lead to the
development of a healthy body.
Imperative II - Comprehensive Student Services Programs
Goal 1: To provide for a systematic means of admission for all qualified
applicants
Goal 2: To provide for recruiting and dissemination of information so that
potential students and students will be properly informed of the College's
8

services and programs
Goal 3: To provide orientation experiences to assist the successful adjustment
to college life
Goal 4: To provide career counseling
Goal 5: To provide comprehensive academic advising services
Goal 6: To provide a comprehensive program of student activities which
complement the educational process of the student
Goal 7: To provide a system of student governance that allows students to practice
democratic procedures while promoting input concerning college affairs
Goal 8: To provide placement assistance to students seeking employment or
transfer to senior institutions
Imperative III - Quality
Goal 1: To assure quality in all programs and services employing cycle of
effective planning, evaluation, and improvement
Goal 2: To strengthen teaching and learning by promoting effective teaching
methods
Goal 3: To attract, retain, and support qualified personnel and to provide
opportunities for their professional development
Goal 4: To secure resources to assist in providing a quality learning environment
Goal 5: To pursue and maintain accreditation by the Commission on Colleges
(COC) of the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS)
and appropriate program accreditation
Imperative IV - Accessibility and Diversity
Goal 1: To provide educational access to individuals with a desire and
documented ability to benefit from the College's offerings
Goal 2: To provide educational opportunities without regard to race, gender, creed,
socio-economic status, or age for those who have documented eligibility
and ability to benefit
Imperative V – Articulation
Goal 1: To strengthen program and course articulation between the College
and other colleges and universities
Goal 2: To strengthen program articulation or linkages (e.g., linkages through
programs such as the Dual Enrollment Program, etc.) between the College
and high schools
Imperative VI - Community Linkages
9

Goal 1: To provide cultural and academic resources for the community
and churches in the area
Goal 2: To provide for continual communication with educational and community
agencies
Goal 3: To provide community services that support personal growth, cultural
enrichment, and recreation; provide access to college facilities for
community activities; and promote community, social, and economic wellbeing<<<SECTION>>>

Accreditation:
Andrew College is accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and
Schools Commission on Colleges to award the following degrees and certificate:
Associate of Arts (AA), Associate of Science (AS), Associate of Music (AM),
Associate Degree in Nursing, (ADN), and the Bachelor of Science in Business
Administration, (BSBA) and the Cancer Registry Management Certificate. Contact
the Commission on Colleges at 1866 Southern Lane, Decatur, Georgia 30033-4097
or call 404-679-4500 for questions about the accreditation of Andrew College.
The United Methodist Church:
Andrew College is endorsed by the University Senate of The United Methodist
Church as an affiliated United Methodist institution.

10

Section 2.0

Governance & Administration<<<SECTION>>>

Corporate Structure:<<<SECTION>>>

Charter:
Andrew College is chartered as a non-profit corporation under the laws of
the state of Georgia. The charter currently in effect is dated March 16, 1972, and
states: "... the affairs of the corporation are governed by a Board of Directors, which
shall, however, be designated as the “Board of Trustees,” and which shall be
determined and elected as provided in the by-laws of the corporation."
The purposes for which this corporation was formed and for which it
continues are "to establish, maintain and operate a college providing higher
education in a Christian atmosphere and to attempt to exemplify the redemptive
philosophy of The United Methodist Church in every area of student relationships;
to offer young men and women an opportunity for academic achievement and to
instill in them a desire for intellectual as well as moral integrity.” A copy of the
Andrew College Charter is maintained in the Office of the President.
<<<SECTION>>>

By-Laws:
As required by the charter the College functions under an approved set of
by-laws. The by-laws define the powers, membership, officers, committees, etc. of
the Board of Trustees which is the governing entity of the institution. In addition
the by-laws establish certain fiscal, academic, and operational criteria for the Board to
utilize in exercising its responsibilities. A copy of the Andrew College by-laws is
maintained in the Office of the President.
<<<SECTION>>>

Board of Trustees:
The ultimate responsibility for the governance of the College rests with the
Board of Trustees. The President is elected by the Board of Trustees.
The regular members of the Board of Trustees consist of not less than
fifteen and not more than thirty-nine elected members. There are two other
classifications of trustees: Emeritus Trustees and Ex-Officio Trustees that include
the presiding Bishop of the South Georgia Conference, the Executive Director of
the Georgia United Methodist Commission on Higher Education, and other
ministerial members of The United Methodist Church. Of the total number of
regular and ex officio members, at least two-thirds must be members of The United
Methodist Church.
All vacancies occurring on the Board are filled by election, by a majority of
the Board of Trustees present. All trustees are elected for a term of three years. The
names of all persons recommended for nomination for election to the Board of
Trustees are referred to the Committee on Trustees for investigation and inquiry.
There are a minimum of two regular meetings of the Board of Trustees
annually (Spring and Fall) with the Annual Meeting being the Spring meeting.

11
<<<SECTION>>>

Administration:<<<SECTION>>>

Executive Level Administration:
The executive administration of the College is the responsibility of the
President of the College. This responsibility and authority is assigned to the
President by the Board of Trustees. The President has established the President’s
Cabinet to act as an advisory board in the administration of College operations. The
President’s Cabinet advises the President on all matters pertaining to Andrew
College. The President's Cabinet consists of the Dean of Academic Affairs, Dean of
Student Affairs, Vice President for Advancement, Vice President for Enrollment,
and the Vice President for Finance with regular consultations with the Athletic
Director. The cabinet is chaired by the President and meets on a weekly basis.<<<SECTION>>> President of the College:
The President of the College is elected by the Board of Trustees to
serve as the chief administrative officer of Andrew College. He/She reports
to the Board of Trustees and is charged with administration of the College in
achieving set goals. The President is the hiring authority of all persons
employed by the institution.<<<SECTION>>> Dean of Academic Affairs:
The Dean of Academic Affairs is the chief academic officer of the
institution and is appointed by the President. He/She reports to the President
and is charged with the leadership and administration of the academic and
instructional programs. His/Her responsibilities include:
 Administering academic, Andrew Serves, and SSC budgets
 Assigning the faculty duties, responsibilities, and work load
 Editing and publishing the College Catalog, Faculty Handbook, and
Advisor Handbook
 Planning commencement and convocation
 Plans faculty workshops and in-service training programs
 Preparing class schedules
 Proposing opportunities for faculty and staff professional
development;
 Representing the College at meetings and research procedures
 Responsible for management oversight of SACSCOC accreditation
requirements
 Responsible for implementation and creation of the Strategic Plan
 Serving as campus SACSCOC Accreditation Liaison
 Supervising and evaluating Andrew Serves Program
 Supervising and evaluating faculty
 Supervising and evaluating the Library
 Supervising the ordering of textbook by the faculty
 Supervising the College Store
12



Overseeing the Andrew Serves Program, Focus Program,
Honors Program, Student Success Center and various Title III
and IV programs
<<<SECTION>>> Vice President for Finance:
The Vice President for Finance is a member of the President’s Cabinet
and responsible for directing financial resources and activities in support of the
College Mission, Vision, and Strategic Plan. Customer focus, College service,
and a willingness to assist as needed with our expectations of all our
employees. His/Her responsibilities include the following:
 Oversees the physical and budget operations of the College including
budget planning and management, strategic planning for fiscal
accountability, cash management, internal and external audit, payroll,
purchasing, accounts payable and student billing
 Responsible for the management of Human Resources and the
development and implementation of personnel policies and
procedures
 Guides institutional risk management and safety in addition to
working with external legal affairs and insurance companies
 Works with financial institutions to manage the College endowment
and debt services
 Gives oversight and serves as the liaison to third party contractors
responsible for campus dining and facilities management
 Staff support for the Audit, Finance, Investment, and Buildings &
Grounds Committees of the Board of Trustees
 Support government compliance reporting (including/but not limited
to) the Department of Education, IPEDS, and IRS<<<SECTION>>> Dean of Student Affairs:
The Dean of Student Affairs serves as the Chief Administrator over the
Office of Student Affairs for the College and is a member of the President’s
Cabinet. He/She is responsible for all areas of Student Life, College Police
Department, College Chaplain and Religious Life, Orientation and Welcome
Week, and Health and Safety. His/her responsibilities include:
 Understand, promote, and support the mission of the College
 Engage in the Strategic Planning process
 Lead, manage, and assess all areas within Student Affairs
 Serve as the on-call administrator for Student Affairs and student
related emergencies
 Serve on College committees as assigned
 Participate in official College gatherings
 Serve as the Chief Student Conduct Officer/Judicial Affairs Officer.
Review, update, and implement Code of Students Conduct in
collaboration with appropriate faculty, staff, and students

13








Manage the College Emergency and Disaster Plans and the
Emergency Alert System
Manage and publish the Annual Security Report and Annual Fire
Safety Report
Lead the publication of the College annual Student Handbook and Office
of Student Affairs Manual and other Student Affairs materials in
association with the appropriate staff
Serve as the liaison between the students of the College and Facilities
Management, Dining Services, and the College Contract Physician
Recruit, hire, supervise, train, and evaluate all Student Affairs staff
Manage the budget for the Office of Student Affairs

Participate in the College Retention Plan to meet overall enrollment goals<<<SECTION>>> Vice President for Advancement:
The Vice President for Advancement coordinates Andrew College
resources to foster a climate of continuous improvement and data-driven
decision making, assuring federal Title III and institutional strategic goals are
realized. Reporting to the Andrew College President and serving as a
member of the President’s Cabinet, the Vice President for Advancement
provides leadership to the development and alumni.








Align resources and hold campus community members accountable
for reaching Andrew College’s strategic plan goals, including raising<<<SECTION>>> million to complete the Making the Difference comprehensive
campaign, acquiring 350 residential students and earmarking $500,000
for discretionary spending by June 30, 2017
Collaborate with members of the President’s Cabinet to achieve
continuous institutional priorities such as, but not limited to,
budgeting, coordination of administrative searches, capital
improvements, contracted services and campus operations
Lead a team of directors who are responsible for the operation of
development and alumni
Support the President’s work with the Andrew College Board of
Trustees and serve as an liaison to the Development Committee and
the Committee on Trustees
Create new connections and manage existing relationships with other
organizations and individuals associated with The United Methodist
Church
<<<SECTION>>> Vice President for Enrollment Management:
The Vice President for Enrollment Management, also known as the
Director of Admission, will be responsible for the recruitment and

14

admittance of each succeeding class of new students at Andrew College and
for the Financial Aid Program. His/Her responsibilities include:
 Develop goals, strategies and objectives for the recruitment of all
new students in interdepartmental efforts to meet Andrew College’s
strategic enrollment goals
 Manage strategies for financial aid award integration during the
admission process and implement tactics to achieve goals
 Train and supervise enrollment staff members; when necessary, hire
new members of the enrollment staff
 Implement inquiry-to-enrollment processes and assist in the decisionmaking process for admission candidates that do not require the
consideration of the Enrollment Management Committee
 Travel on behalf of Andrew College to attend college fairs, visit with
high school counselors and secure dates for speaking engagements
with students when possible
 Support the Chaplain and President in engaging United Methodist
youth, churches and other Christian organizations for recruitment
purposes
 Cooperate with the executive secretary of the Georgia United
Methodist Commission on Higher Education to promote mutually
beneficial initiatives
 Plan and direct the annual Pitts Academic Scholarship Competition
and regularly scheduled Visitation Days
 Prepare and lead regular department meetings
 Participate in the Enrollment Management Committee and other
committees as assigned
 Communicate regularly with academic program directors and
coaches; assist recruiting efforts in cooperation with the Dean of
Academic Affairs, Athletic Director
 Work in coordination with the Director of Communications to
create an annual enrollment management communications and
marketing plan designed to increase the awareness of Andrew
College and drive steady enrollment growth
 Work effectively with colleagues and students by practicing
punctuality, respect for deadlines, collaborative problem solving, and
honest communication
 Build trusting relationships by acting with integrity, courtesy, and
responsibility, even in the face of stress or demanding workplace
conditions
 Maintain proficiency as needed and approved by attending trainings,
reading job-related materials, and meeting with others in area of
responsibility<<<SECTION>>> Athletic Director
The Athletic Director is appointed by and reports to the President.
His/Her responsibilities include:

15










<<<SECTION>>>

Check and verify the eligibility of all student athletes and submit the
results to the NJCAA
Consult with Director of Admissions on recruiting goals
Represent Andrew College at all state meetings of the GJCAA
Responsible for managing student medical insurance
Serves as a consultant to the President’s Cabinet on matters
pertaining to the Athletics programs.
Supervise and manage the operations and maintenance of all athletic
facilities
Supervise and coordinate the budgets of the athletic teams
Supervise and oversee the Athletic Training Program
Coordinate the hiring and supervision of all athletic department
personnel
Complete federal and institutional reports as required

Department Level Administration
Departmental administration is accomplished through the President’s Cabinet
Officers. The organizational chart depicting the structure is provided below:
Board of
Trustees

President

Dean of
Academic
Affairs *

AndrewServes

Title III
Program
Director
Title III
Program
Coordinator

Academic
Support

VP for
Enrollment *

VP for Finance
*

Director of
Communications &
Marketing/ Executive
Assistant to the
Preseident

Special Assistant
to the President
for Development

Dean of
Student Affairs
*

Athletic
Trainer

Admission
Counselors

Controller

Assistant Dean
of Students

Coaches

Admission
Specialists

Accounts
Payable

Chaplain &
Religious Life

Facilities &
Operations
Manager for
Athletics

Financial Aid

Accounts
Receivable

Police
Department

IWRC

HR & Payroll

Residence Life

Focus

Dinning
Services

Student
Activies &
Intramurals

Division
Coordinators

Facilities
Director

Faculty

Information
Technology

ADA

Professional
Development
Coordinator

Career and
Academic
Mentor

Assistant to
the
Professional
Development
Coordinator

SSC

Honors
Program

Athletic
Director

Learning
Support
Coordinator

EPP

Library

Institutional
Research &
Effectiveness

Coordinator of
Academic
Programs and
Accreditation

Registrar

Coordinator of
Retention, Strategic
Planning, and Regional
Development

16

VP for
Advancement
*
Coordinator of
Development

Development
Assistant
<<<SECTION>>>

Academic Administration:
The Dean of Academic Affairs is responsible for providing leadership, direction,
and supervision in the academic function of the College. Each Division Coordinator is
responsible for providing leadership within his/her division. Each division is comprised of
academic departments. The organizational chart for academic administration, including
academic departmental breakdown is provided below.
The faculty, as a body, has the responsibility to develop, maintain, assess, and
approve academic and pedagogical initiatives that are necessary to fulfill the mission of the
College. This goal is accomplished primarily through a committee structure with approval
by majority of voting faculty. The voting membership of the faculty includes both
administrative faculty and teaching faculty. The President, Dean of Academic Affairs,
Registrar, and Dean of Student Affairs serve as the administrative faculty. Teaching faculty
is full-time faculty who teach at least fifteen hours or the equivalent or who have advising
responsibilities as part of their contract. The Director of Library Services is considered a
full-time faculty member. The voting membership has the right to grant voting privileges
to others upon petition.

17
<<<SECTION>>>

Student Government Administration:
The Student Government Association (SGA) is comprised of Senators and
Representatives, with four sophomore students serving as the officers of the Executive
Board. The Senate consists of eight elected senators from each of the following four
divisions: 4 sophomores & 4 freshmen. These students represent all Andrew students in
the SGA in an official voting capacity. The representative body is made up of
representatives from each of the recognized campus organizations and/or special
committees. Elections for Executive Board and sophomore Senate positions are held
during the Fall semester. The SGA President serves as a member of the Campus
Planning Council along with one freshman Senator.

STUDENT GOVERNMENT ORGANIZATIONAL CHART

PRESIDENT

VICE PRESIDENT

SECRETARY

TREASURER

SENATE
<<<SECTION>>>

OFFICERS OF ORGANIZATIONS

Alumni Association Administration:<<<SECTION>>> The Preamble of the Andrew College Alumni Association states that the
organization is established to:
 Enjoy continued fellowship with each other after attending Andrew
 To stimulate interest in the College, perpetuate her traditions, and
promote her continued development<<<SECTION>>> Membership in the association is open to all students who have attended the
College.<<<SECTION>>> The officers of the organization shall be a President, a Georgia Vice- President,
a Florida Vice-President, a Secretary, and a Treasurer. All officers shall be elected by
vote at the annual meeting and shall remain in office for two years.

18

The immediate past President shall continue to serve as an ex-officio member of the
Alumni Council.<<<SECTION>>> The Alumni Council will consist of the officers of the Alumni Association,
the immediate past President of the Alumni Association, the Vice President for
Advancement, the President of Andrew College, and area coordinators and decade
coordinators. Area coordinators are appointed to serve as liaison officers between
Andrew College and other alumni who live in their designated areas. Decade
coordinators are appointed to serve as liaison officers between Andrew College and
class coordinators within their decade.<<<SECTION>>>

Committee Structure:
Standing Committees:<<<SECTION>>> Athletic Advisory – This committee will advise the Athletic Director on matters
related to athletics and recommend policies for the effective administration of the Athletic
Department and for the general and academic welfare of student-athletes. This committee will
review and approve the competitive schedule for each sport for the purpose of ensuring that studentathletes do not miss any more classes than is appropriate. This committee is also charged to review
and evaluate the athletic program’s assessment and achievement of goals and outcomes and makes
recommendations for improvement in the following year. The committee is chaired by a
senior faculty member. In addition to the chair, a minimum of three other faculty
members and one staff member from the Athletic Department will serve on the
committee. Ex officio member are the Athletic Director and Dean of Academic
Affairs.<<<SECTION>>> Awards & Achievements - This committee is responsible for the soliciting of
nominations and determining the winners of awards given at the Academic Honors Convocation
held during the spring semester every year. Awards given include: Andy Awards, outstanding
achievement at the state, regional or national level, academic department awards, Phi Theta Kappa
awards, and Who’s Who in American Junior Colleges. The committee is chaired by the
Registrar. At least four faculty members representing the divisions of the College
and the President of Phi Theta Kappa also serve. Ex officio members are the Dean
of Academic Affairs, a representative from the Financial Aid office, Director of
Andrew Serves and the Athletic Director.<<<SECTION>>> Benefits - This committee reviews, evaluates, and determines the college’s benefits and
fringe benefit programs. The committee in chaired by a Faculty member and includes a
representation of faculty, staff, and administration. Ex officio member is the Vice
President for Finance.<<<SECTION>>> Campus Planning Council (CPC) - This council is responsible for involving
the campus constituents in the setting of and evaluation of college goals and assessment, reporting
of assessment data, and using the analysis of campus assessments and data to suggest campus
planning initiatives to continuously improve the achievement of the College mission. This council
will play a major role in the accreditation and Quality Enhancement Planning and
implementation. The Coordinator of Institutional Research and Effectiveness serves as the chair
of this committee. The membership of this committee includes faculty, staff, and
students. Cabinet members serve ex officio.
19
<<<SECTION>>> Campus Safety Council - The committee will review current campus security and
safety policies and procedures and make recommendations for their improvement on an annual
basis. It shall specifically review plans and procedures for educating the campus community,
including safety department personnel and those persons who advise or supervise students, about
sexual assault; and, educating the campus community about personal safety and crime prevention.
The committee is chaired by the Chief of Police. The committee shall include the
Director of Athletic Safety and Therapy, a member of the Student Affairs staff, and
representation from the faculty, staff, and administration for a minimum of six
members, half of whom should be female. Ex officio members: Dean of Student
Affairs, and Vice President for Finance.<<<SECTION>>> Communications Committee - This committee facilitates and monitors the
unified identity of Andrew College. The committee is responsible for developing communication
pathways and ensuring recruitment materials, event promotion flyers, college publications, press
releases and other college external communications that accurately promote the mission and identity
of Andrew College. This committee is chaired by the Director of Communications.
The committee will consist of a member from each campus department, including
but not limited to academic, athletic, communications, enrollment, and student
affairs.<<<SECTION>>> Cultural Enrichment Program Committee (CEP) - This committee is
responsible for approving programs in the cultural arts as suitable to meet the graduation
requirements for degree-seeking students at Andrew College and to provide cultural enrichment to the
community and area churches. The committee is responsible each year for compiling a schedule of
approved cultural arts events its distribution to the campus and surrounding community. The
committee is also responsible for evaluating and reporting earned CEP credit and assessing the
adequacy and effectiveness of the CEP in bringing cultural events to the community and area
churches. The committee is chaired by a faculty member and at least three other
faculty members and one student. Ex officio members are the President and Dean of
Academic Affairs.<<<SECTION>>> Appeals Committee - This committee is responsible for hearing appeals cases
involving student misconduct. Members serve as needed when a valid appeal has been received and
approved by the Office of Student Affairs. The appeals board reviews cases originally heard by the
Dean of Student Affairs. The Appeals Board decisions are final on all conduct cases in accordance
with policy and procedures outlined in the Student Handbook. A senior faculty member serves
as the chair of this committee. The committee should consist of a minimum of three
college administrators needed for each case, excluding the College President.<<<SECTION>>> Educational Program Committee (EPC) - This committee must approve any
significant change in the Andrew College curriculum as appropriate to the mission of Andrew
College. Proposals for consideration must be approved by the Division Coordinator before
presentation to the EPC. Presentations to the EPC should contain such information as program
and/or course descriptions, course transferability, teacher availability, cost data, pre- requisites,
potential student interests, and a syllabus for a specific course. Curricular changes approved by the
EPC are presented to the Faculty for final approval. The EPC Chair is responsible for
communicating changes to the Registrar for corrections in the Academic Catalog. Membership:
This committee is chaired by a senior faculty member, and includes at least one
other senior faculty member, and representative faculty members

20

from each of the College’s academic divisions, and the Vice-President of the
Student Government Association. Ex officio members are the Dean of
Academic Affairs and the Director of Library Services.<<<SECTION>>> Enrollment Management Committee- This committee is charged
with the review and determination of conditional admission for students
who do not normally meet the standards for unconditional admission. This
committee is also charged with an annual review of admission policy. The
Director of Admission is the chair of this committee, which includes a
representation of faculty members and administrators, the Director of the
Student Success Center, Director of the FOCUS program, and a member of
the athletic department.<<<SECTION>>> Faculty Development Committee - This committee makes recommendations
to the Dean of Academic Affairs regarding the allocation of funds for faculty development travel
and training, and faculty promotion and tenure. Additionally, using assessment data, this
committee assists in the planning of annual in-service faculty development workshops. The
committee is chaired by a senior faculty member. The committee will consist of four
additional senior faculty members who will not be considered for tenure or
promotion during their time of service. Members on the committee may be
considered for funding; however, they must recuse themselves during the voting
process. Ex officio member is the Dean of Academic Affairs.<<<SECTION>>> Honors Program Advisory Council - This council serves as an advisory
board to the Honors Program Coordinator. The committee is charged to review and evaluate the
program and make recommendations for improvement on an annual basis. The committee is
chaired by a senior faculty member. Other members are three additional faculty
members from different divisions, the Director of Andrew Serves, Director of
the Library and an honors program student in his/her second year. Ex officio
members are the Honors Program Coordinator and Dean of Academic Affairs.<<<SECTION>>> Institutional Effectiveness Committee - This committee will guide,
coordinate, and monitor institutional effectiveness efforts to foster a climate of continuous
improvement and data-driven decision making. The committee will collect, analyze, review and
report data to identify areas of annual emphasis as related to the overall Strategic Plan. This
committee will review the effectiveness of each institutional unit on a two year cycle. The
committee will be responsible for review and updates to the Institutional Effectiveness Manual.
The Coordinator of Institutional Research and Effectiveness serves as the chair.
Other members are selected at the pleasure of the President. Ex officio members
are the President, Vice President for Advancement and the Dean of Academic
Affairs.<<<SECTION>>> Library Advisory Council - This committee is responsible for advising the
Director of the Library on matters related to the Library facility, collections, operations, and
staffing. This committee reviews and evaluates the Library assessment data and makes
recommendations for improvement in the following year. The committee is chaired by a
senior faculty member. It consists of at least two more faculty members, a staff
member, and a student. Ex officio members are the Dean of Academic Affairs,
the Director of Communications, and the Director of the Library.

21
<<<SECTION>>> Maintenance Committee - The role of the maintenance committee is to
monitor overall campus appearance and safety by ensuring that building, grounds, and equipment
maintenance requirements are satisfied in a timely manner and to identify and plan for
preventative maintenance needs. The committee also serves as a means of communication for the
set up/cleanup of special events and functions of the College. The committee is chaired by
the Vice President for Finance and includes representatives from the contracted
maintenance provider, food services, student affairs office, athletic department,
and academic affairs office.<<<SECTION>>> Social Committee - This committee shall be responsible for planning, and
coordinating social activities for the benefit of faculty and staff, such as holiday parties, birthday
parties, showers, movies, concerts, dinners, and other special gatherings. The committee also
aids in promoting a sense of community and togetherness among the faculty and
staff that will permeate throughout the entire student body and campus
community as a whole.<<<SECTION>>> Staff Development Committee - This committee meets and reviews
applications for funding staff development opportunities, requests, and training. The
committee is chaired by the Controller, and includes representation of staff from
various support units of the College.<<<SECTION>>> CARE Team Committee - CARE Team promotes early intervention with
students of concern to prevent culminating problems from escalating into a crisis. The goal of the
CARE Team is to identify students of concern and develop an action plan focusing on retention
through provision of support and resources. The committee is chaired by a member of
the staff; membership includes the Student Affairs staff, and representation from
faculty. Ex officio member is the Dean of Student Affairs.<<<SECTION>>> Sustainability Committee - This committee designs, implements, reviews and
evaluates campus sustainability efforts and plans new campus sustainability initiatives. The
committee is chaired by a member of the Faculty, membership includes the
Physical Plant Manager, Director of Andrew Serves, Director of Food Services,
and a representation of faculty, staff, and students.<<<SECTION>>> Technology Committee - This committee reviews and evaluates campus
technology, including software, hardware, policy and procedures. The committee is chaired
by a senior faculty member, and includes a representation of faculty, staff, and
administration. Ex officio member is the Vice President for Advancement.<<<SECTION>>> Ad Hoc Committees - Small groups of faculty and/or staff are
appointed annually by the President/Dean of Academic Affairs or elected by the
faculty to serve on a variety of special-purpose committees or teams.<<<SECTION>>>

Policy & Reporting Publications:<<<SECTION>>> Policy & Procedures Manual:
The Andrew College Policy & Procedure Manual serves as a resource to
all faculty and staff in regards to institutional operating policy. It contains
those policies and procedures that establish the character of the College,
expectations of the faculty & staff to the College and to each other, what
22

can be expected from the College by its faculty & staff, and guidelines for
those expectations. Access to this manual is provided upon appointment
and/or employment.
Revisions will be made to all electronic versions of the manual
such as those on the College network and website. A review of the
manual will be made on a continuous basis to ensure completeness and
compatibility with other publications. The Communication Committee is
charged with the responsibility to conduct this review. The Policy &
Procedures Manual and all revisions may be approved by the President’s
Cabinet and/or in consultation with appropriate Trustees.<<<SECTION>>> Catalog:
The Andrew College Catalog contains policies and information that is
related to student enrollment, attendance, graduation, and rights. The
catalog serves as the statement of the College’s academic offerings,
standards, and costs to students, parents, and outside agencies. The
catalog is published on the College’s website and located on the
administrative network for all staff members. Electronic copies are
available upon request. The catalog is revised annually by the Office of
Academic Affairs.<<<SECTION>>>

Faculty Handbook:
The Faculty Handbook contains policies and information related to
the academic program of the College. The handbook serves as a resource
to faculty in the areas of administration, governance, employment,
evaluation, contracts, and academic freedom. The Faculty Handbook is
revised annually by the Office of Academic Affairs.
<<<SECTION>>> Advisors Handbook:
The Advisors Handbook contains policies, procedures, information,
and tools to guide the faculty in student advising. The Advisors
Handbook is revised annually by the Office of Academic Affairs.<<<SECTION>>>

Student Handbook:
The Andrew College Student Handbook contains policies and
information that is related to student life, activities, regulations,
organizations, and discipline. The handbook is published online at the
beginning of the academic year. The handbook is revised annually by the
Dean of Student Affairs.
<<<SECTION>>> Emergency Action Plan:
The Andrew College Emergency Action Plan provides information and
procedures outlining the College’s organization and response in times of
emergencies and disasters. The manual is distributed in electronic form
on the administrative network for all staff. Procedural guides containing
recommended actions to be taken by each individual are provided to all
staff members. The manual is reviewed annually by the Campus Safety
Committee and revised and updated annually by the Dean of Student
Affairs.
23
<<<SECTION>>> Annual Report:
The Andrew College Annual Report is created annually by the
Controller’s Office. It must be approved by the Audit Committee of the
Andrew College Board of Trustees. Copies are given to the Board of
Trustee members, appropriate governmental agencies, and specific
financial institutions.<<<SECTION>>> Audited Financial Reports:
Annually the College engages an outside, independent firm to
perform an audit of its financial operations, including a compliance review
of all state and federal funds received or handled by the institution. These
audits follow established national standards as required by lending,
governmental, accounting, and accrediting agencies.<<<SECTION>>> Andrew College Annual Security and Fire Safety Report:
In compliance with the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of Campus
Security Policy and Crime Statistics Act, Andrew College prepares an
annual report that includes statistics for the previous three years
concerning reported crimes and institution policies concerning campus
security and fire safety. The Dean of Student Affairs is responsible for
the publication and dissemination of this annual report.<<<SECTION>>> Fact Book:
Prepared by the Office of Institutional Research and
Effectiveness, this publication provides institutional data and trends
related to student enrollment and program outcomes.<<<SECTION>>>
<<<SECTION>>>

Institutional Effectiveness Manual:
The Institutional Effectiveness Manual is intended to provide an
overview of the processes and tools used to assess the institution’s
achievement and progress toward stated goals and fulfillment of its
mission.

Policy Revision & Development:
Additions, deletions, or changes in policy defined within the Andrew
College Charter or By-Laws can be made only by the Board of Trustees and
within established procedures and guidelines provided in those documents.
Additions, deletions, or changes in institutional operating policies, unless
defined/established through the by-laws or actions of the Board of Trustees, are
the responsibility of the administration. All policies must conform to state and
federal regulations.

24

Section 3.0

General Institutional Policies
This section contains institutional policies that are mandated by the nature of our
institution and are applicable to all members of the College community regardless of employment
status or position. Each member of the College community must understand and remain in
compliance during his/her employment. Questions on any of the stated policies should be
directed to the President’s Cabinet Officer responsible for the area in which the employee works.<<<SECTION>>>

Equal Employment Opportunity/Non-Discriminatory Policy:
Andrew College does not discriminate on the basis of race, religion, color, sex
(including pregnancy and gender identity), sexual orientation, parental status, national
origin, age, disability, family medical history or genetic information, political affiliation,
military service, or any other non-merit based factor in the administration of its
employment and education policies, admission policies, scholarship and loan programs,
athletic programs, and other College administered programs. Furthermore, the College
does not discriminate on the basis of physical handicap in the recruitment and admission
of students, the recruitment and employment of faculty and staff, and the operation of
any of its programs and activities, as specified by federal law and regulations. The
designated coordinator for compliance with Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of
1973, as amended, is the Vice President for Finance. Any employee with questions or
concerns about discrimination in the workplace is encouraged to bring these issues to the
attention of the Vice President for Finance or the President of the College. Staff
members can raise concerns and make reports without fear of reprisal. Anyone found to
be engaging in any type of unlawful discrimination will be subject to disciplinary action,
up to an including termination of employment.
<<<SECTION>>>

Drug-Free and Alcohol-Free Workplace:
The Drug-Free Workplace Act of 1988 requires all institutions receiving grants
from any State or Federal Agency to certify to that particular agency that they will
maintain a drug-free workplace by taking certain actions. The following policies and
procedures relating to employment, disciplinary action and reporting of violations is in
response to this requirement and affirms the United Methodist Church's posture that
discourages the use of any substance which diminishes the development of the full
potential of all persons. Staff members should refer to Section 4 of the College’s Drug
and Alcohol Use Policy for more information on this topic.
<<<SECTION>>>

Harassment:
It has always been Andrew College’s policy to maintain the best possible
employment atmosphere for all employees. This policy includes the right of the
employees to be free from all forms of harassment of any kind by anyone in connection
with their employment, including harassment because of a person’s race, color, religion,
gender, national origin, age, disability, veteran status, genetic information, or any other
characteristic protected by applicable Federal, State or local legislation.
a) Prohibited harassment includes, but is not limited to, epithets, slurs, derogatory
comments or jokes, intimidation, negative stereotyping, threats, assault or any physical
interference with the employee’s normal work or movement. Harassment may also
include written or graphic material placed on walls, bulletin boards or elsewhere on the
College’s premises or circulated in the workplace that denigrates, shows hostility or
aversion towards an individual or group because of the characteristics identified above.

25

b)

Whether or not the person means to give offense or believed his or her comments
or conduct was welcome is not significant. Rather, the College’s policy is violated
when other employees, whether recipients or mere observers are, in fact, offended by
comments or conduct based on race, religion, color, sex, age, national origin, disability,
genetic information or any other legally protected characteristic.

c)

Andrew College is committed to maintaining an environment where the education
of students is of the greatest importance. The College’s mission is best advanced
through adherence by faculty and staff to the highest standards of professionalism in
the discharge of their duties. Trust and respect are diminished when those in positions
of authority abuse that authority or place themselves in a situation of actual or
perceived conflict of interest by participating in amorous relationships with students.
Even when the faculty or staff member and student act with integrity others may
perceive bias, partiality, or influence. Furthermore, the dissolution of these
relationships can create discord and significantly impair the normal operations of the
College. It is, therefore, the policy of the College that dating, romantic; or sexual
relationships between faculty or staff, students and minors compromise the integrity of
such faculty and staff thus constituting unprofessional conduct. Such relationships are
therefore prohibited. This policy also applies during college breaks and summers. A
demonstrated failure to abide by this policy will result in the initiation of disciplinary
action against the faculty or staff member engaged in the relationship. Amorous
relationships between faculty or staff, students and minors are strictly prohibited.

d) As a large employer of the area, the College does have members from the same family
who work on campus. However, employment of family members in situations where
one family member has direct influence over the other's conditions of employment
(i.e., salary, hours worked, shifts, etc.) is discouraged. Faculty and staff, particularly in
relationships with persons under their supervision, need to be aware of potential
conflicts of interest and the possible compromise of their evaluative capacity. They
also need to be aware that a relationship may give rise to a perception on the part of
others that the evaluative capacity of the faculty or staff member has been
compromised. For the purpose of this policy, family members are defined as spouse,
domestic partner, daughter, son, parent, grandparent, grandchild, sister, brother,
mother-in-law or father-in-law.
In cases where a concern over conflict of interest may arise or staff is unsure about a
potential conflict, they should fully disclose the circumstances in writing to their
immediate supervisor. The hiring, changing of position, or termination of employees
regarding this matter is at the discretion of the cabinet level supervisor and/or the
President.
Sexual harassment is prohibited by Andrew College and by state and federal law.
Sexual harassment of any member of the College community is prohibited and will
subject the offender to disciplinary action, up to and including termination.
Faculty and staff members who violate this policy are subject to disciplinary action up
to and including termination of employment. Complaint of violations of this policy
should be made to the Vice President of Finance or Dean of Student Affairs.

26
<<<SECTION>>>

Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA):
The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act (FERPA) affords students certain
rights with respect to their education records and a burden of responsibility on
maintaining the privacy of said records. No faculty/staff member is authorized to release
any information related to a current or former student to the student or a third party
unless authorized to do so by nature of their position or by written authorization by the
student. Generally, schools must have written permission from the student before
releasing any information from a student's educational record. However, the law allows
schools to disclose records, without consent of the student, to the following parties:
 College employees who have a legitimate need to know
 Parents of dependent students as defined by the Internal Revenue Service
 Persons who need to know in cases of health and safety emergencies
 Accrediting organizations to carry out accrediting functions
 Appropriate parties in connection with financial aid to a student
 Federal, State and local governmental officials for purposes authorized by law
 Individuals who have lawfully obtained court orders or subpoenas
 Organizations conducting educational studies for the College
 Courts during litigation between the College and the student or parent
 Victim of crime or violence after final results of a disciplinary hearing
 Public after disciplinary proceedings determine student committed crime of
violence
Any employee having a question about FERPA compliance should contact the Registrar.
<<<SECTION>>>

Threats of Violence/Hostile Workplace:
Andrew College recognizes that violence in the workplace is an unfortunate
reality in today’s society and that college campuses are not exempt from this trend.
Violence in the college workplace may appear in different forms and can include direct or
indirect threatening, verbal and physical assaults, domestic disputes, sabotage or behavior
that disrupts and creates a hostile work environment. Andrew College is committed to
maintaining for its employees, students and visitors an environment that is free from
intimidation, threats and violent acts. Andrew College will not tolerate any act or threat
of violence made in the workplace, on College property, or while the employee is in work
status.
Any faculty or staff member who either experience or observes an act of violence
or threat of violence must immediately report the incident to a member of the President’s
Cabinet or the Andrew College Police Department. Failure to report acts of workplace
violence is grounds for discipline, up to and including termination.
<<<SECTION>>>

Student Guest Policy:
Guests visiting Andrew students must be escorted by an Andrew student at all
times and carry a photo ID. Guests should request a temporary parking permit and guest
pass with the College Police. Visitors are not allowed to be in the residence halls after
12:00 a.m. and before 12:00 p.m. unless the Dean of Students Affairs, Assistant Dean of
Student Affairs, or Resident Director grants an overnight visitation pass. Commuter
students must vacate at this time unless they are working on College related business with
a faculty or staff member. All guests are expected to maintain the
27

rules and regulations of the College and failure to do so may result in criminal trespass
charges. All guests must sign waivers to be on campus and use facilities. Students may
have only one overnight guest at a time, and the guest may not stay longer than two
nights per visit. Overnight guests under the age of 18are not allowed.<<<SECTION>>>

Georgia Trespass Law:
Andrew College enforces the Georgia Trespass Law, which makes it unlawful to
interfere with students and employees or to loiter on the College premises. All guests on
campus must be escorted by an Andrew student, faculty or staff member. All guests are
expected to maintain the rules and regulations of the College and failure to do so may
result in criminal trespass charges. Please refer to the Andrew College Guest Policy in the
Student Handbook.
<<<SECTION>>>

Andrew College Police Department:
Officers at Andrew College are certified police officers who have extensive
training and experience in the field of law enforcement. College officers maintain contact
with Resident Assistants who are on duty each evening in the residence halls, and with a
Resident Director who, along with Resident Assistants, maintains weekend duty.
Officers also maintain direct communication with the Dean of Student Affairs and the
local enforcement agencies. The Andrew College Police Department is a registered and
recognized department with the State of Georgia. The Andrew College Police Chief and
Police Officers are certified as Peace Officers by the Georgia Peace Officer Standards and
Training Council.
<<<SECTION>>>

Pet & Animal Policy:
Pets are not allowed to reside in campus buildings and/or facilities without
permission from the College President. Individuals who “walk” pets across
campus or bring pets to outdoor athletic games must keep the pet on a leash and
under the owner’s control at all times. Under the Americans with Disabilities Act
(ADA) Service animals are allowed on the Andrew College Campus. Service
animals must be harnessed, leashed, or tethered, unless these devices interfere
with the service animal’s work or the individual’s disability prevents using these
devices. In that case, the individual must maintain control of the animal through
voice, signal, or other effective controls.
<<<SECTION>>>

Intellectual Property Rights:
Scholarly works such as articles, computer programs, books, musical or dramatic
compositions of employees or students of Andrew College are considered the property of
the creator unless the work is prepared by special agreement or is a part of the
expectations of the employment contract.
Any discovery or invention which a) results from research carried on, by or under
the direction of any employee which is supported by Andrew College funds or by funds
controlled or administered by the college, or b) has been developed in whole or in part
through the use of college resources or facilities not available to the general public, or c)
results from an employee's duties with the college shall belong to Andrew College.
College employees and students shall disclose any item that may fall within items
"a" or "b" listed in this statement on intellectual property.”

28
<<<SECTION>>>

Substantive Change Policy:
It is the intention of Andrew College to adhere to the Southern Association of
Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC) Substantive Change Policy.
To that end, Andrew College follows the process below:
 At least annually, at the beginning of the new academic year, the President will
review pending changes at the College to determine what type of substantive
change action must be taken with SACSCOC. As changes occur throughout
the academic year, the President will take whatever steps necessary to ensure
Andrew College remains in compliance with the SACSCOC Substantive
Change Policy
 At the request of the President, each member of the President’s Cabinet will
review the Substantive Change Procedure table with their staff (Refer to
SACSCOC Policy Statement located at
http://www.sacscoc.org/pdf/081705/SubstantiveChange.pdf)
 If changes are identified, determination of the appropriate procedure for
addressing them is made using the Substantive Change Procedure table
included in the SACSCOC Policy on Substantive Change
 A person responsible for action is identified and deadlines are determined
 If documentation is necessary, it is forwarded to the Accreditation Liaison for
final action

29

Section 4.0

Health & Safety Policies
Employees must read, review and understand the Andrew College Emergency
Action Plan, which is published annually. In the event of an on campus emergency, the
faculty/staff person should immediately contact the Andrew College Police at (229) 7325919 or dial 911 for assistance.<<<SECTION>>>

Incident/Accident Reporting:<<<SECTION>>>

Employees:
Any job-related accident, illness or any incident involving damage to
College property must be reported by College personnel to their immediate
supervisor/department head as soon as possible but within 24 hours of
occurrence. If the immediate supervisor/department head is unavailable, the
information should be given to the Chief of Police, the Vice President for
Finance or the President. The administrator receiving the information has the
responsibility to determine the particulars of the incident and forward them to
the Vice President for Finance. An Incident Report Form (available on the
college website under Student Affairs) is to be filled out within 24 hours of
receiving the report. Hardcopies of the Incident Report can be picked up
from the Director of Human Resources’ office. Employees reporting an
accident need to see a physician immediately. An approved list of physicians
is located in the office of the Director of Human Resources.
<<<SECTION>>>

Students:
All accidents involving students must be reported to the Dean of
Student Affairs within 24 hours of the incident. Any student involved in an
on campus accident should immediately report the incident to a Resident
Assistant, Resident Director, the Assistant Dean of Student Affairs, and/or
Dean of Student Affairs. The Dean of Student Affairs will disseminate
accident reports to the appropriate offices as needed. Reporting faculty/staff
must complete an incident report within 24 hours and submit the report to
the Dean of Student Affairs. An Incident Report Form (available on the
college website under Student Affairs) is to be filled out within 24 hours of
receiving the report.
All serious occurrences including, but not limited to, the following
are required to be reported without delay:
 Coronavirus Disease 2019 (COVID-19)
 Overnight hospitalization
 Loss of sight or hearing
 Incident involving HIV
 A fatality on or off campus
 Fire/Flood
 Active shooter on campus or surrounding area
 Notice of lawsuit
 Poisoning
 Molestation or Sexual Assault
30









<<<SECTION>>>

Sexual Misconduct
Rape
Dating Violence
Major paralytic condition such as paraplegia or quadriplegia
Second or third degree burns to 25% or more of the body
Amputation or permanent loss of use or sensation of a major extremity
Head or brain injuries resulting in permanent disorientation,
behavior disorders, personality changes, seizures, aphasia or coma
Spine or back injuries resulting in incontinence of bladder or bowel
All pollution occurrences

Safety:
Workplace safety is a top priority for Andrew College. The College Safety
Committee, chaired by the Police Chief has responsibility for implementing, administering,
monitoring, and evaluating the safety program. Its success depends on the alertness and
personal commitment of all.
The focus of the Safety Committee is to identify and eliminate safety and security
hazards on campus. In order to achieve its goal the Safety Committee needs input from all
members of the campus community. All employees and students are encouraged to submit
suggestions or possible hazards to their supervisor, the Chief Financial Officer, the Dean of
Student Affairs, or the Police Chief.
Each faculty and staff member is expected to obey safety rules and to exercise
caution in all work activities. Faculty and staff members must immediately report any unsafe
condition to the appropriate administrator. The supervisor will file an Incident Report with
the Police Chief who will provide a copy to the Chief Financial Officer. Persons who violate
safety standards, cause hazardous or dangerous situations, fail to report or, where
appropriate, remedy such situations, may be subject to disciplinary action, up to and
including termination of employment.
In the case of accidents that result in injury, regardless of how insignificant the injury
may appear, employees and students should immediately notify the Chief Financial Officer
or the appropriate supervisor. Such reports are necessary to comply with laws and initiate
insurance and workers' compensation benefits procedures.
<<<SECTION>>>

Tobacco-Free Campus Policy:
Andrew College is committed to providing a healthy, comfortable, and productive
learning and working environment for its students, faculty, staff, and visitors. In accordance
with that commitment, it has enacted a Tobacco-Free Campus Policy.
The use of tobacco is prohibited in all portions of the campus. This includes, but is
not limited to, all buildings, outdoor areas, and parking lots. It includes all areas indoors and
outdoors that are owned by the College.
For purposes of this policy, all uses of tobacco products of any kind are prohibited.
This includes, but is not limited to, smoking, chewing, dipping, electronic cigarettes, vapors,
31

snuff, and snus. It also includes the use of non-tobacco smoking products such as clove
cigarettes.
This policy applies to all persons who enter the areas described above, including but
not limited to students, faculty, staff, contractors and their subcontractors and employees,
spectators, and visitors. All events hosted by the College shall be tobacco-free. All events
hosted by outside groups on the College’s campus shall be tobacco-free.
Faculty and staff who violate this policy will be subject to discipline in accordance with
the Andrew College Policy and Procedure Manual. Students who violate this policy will be
subject to discipline in accordance with the Student Handbook. Other persons who violate
this policy will be asked to discontinue their use of tobacco on campus or to leave the campus.
Appropriate signage is placed to inform persons entering the campus that it is a
tobacco-free campus.<<<SECTION>>>

Weapons:
Any firearm, BB or pellet gun, martial arts weapon, hunting bow, illegal knives,
electronic control device (stun gun or taser), or any other kind of weapon and ammunition is
not allowed on the campus (including vehicles on campus). Students who like to hunt should
arrange to store their weapons off campus. Firearms on campus can be very dangerous in the
community. Any student violating this policy will face suspension from the College. Staff or
Faculty not adhering to this rule could face disciplinary action including termination.
Uniformed officers are exempt from the weapons exclusion. Fireworks or explosives of any
type are prohibited on the campus.
The Chief of Police may define any specific item as a weapon, at his/her sole discretion, and
order it to be removed from campus.
<<<SECTION>>>

Emergency Closings or Delays:
When conditions warrant due to weather, fire, power failures, or other emergencies,
college operations may be disrupted. When weather conditions such as ice, snow, or tornado
conditions present themselves, the President will decide if these circumstances require the
closing of all or part of the campus or a delay in operations. The Academic Dean and Chief
Financial Officer will consult and make a recommendation to the President, who will
communicate that decision via college email, the website, and/or emergency alert systems as
appropriate.
<<<SECTION>>>

HIV Policy:
Andrew College does not discriminate against individuals identified as having a
positive antibody to Human T-Lymphotropic Virus, Type III (HTLV-III), an AIDS- related
complex (ARC) or a true case of Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome (AIDS). However,
the College reserves the right to make necessary reasonable accommodations without
arbitrarily denying anyone's rights. Overall, it is important that the entire Andrew community
be protected from unnecessary risks; therefore, proper measures will be adopted as are
deemed reasonable based upon the latest medical and scientific research.
Andrew College is committed to educate and communicate the most current
32

information regarding AIDS through workshops, training sessions, brochures, etc. The Office
of Student Affairs will assist in providing educational information on AIDS to the College
community at large.
General guidelines concerning the handling of confidential information about
students/staff with AIDS, ARC or a positive HTLV-III antibody test follow the general
standards included in the AIDS on the College Campus, American College Health
Association Special Report, 1986.<<<SECTION>>>

Emergency Action Plan:
The Emergency Action Plan’s two goals are:
 To assure the safety and well-being of students and staff
 The timely response to emergencies and resumption of full operations
Upon confirmation of an emergency or dangerous situation, Andrew College will
immediately notify the campus community of the situation. Andrew College has also adopted
and will follow the procedures provided in its Emergency Action Plan. It is the responsibility of
the President’s Cabinet with cooperation from ACPD to carry out specific responsibilities
before, during, and after an emergency, as well as work as a team to minimize potential loss.
Additional members of the college community have been designated to assist as needed,
including, but not limited to, the Directors of Physical Plant, Food Service, the Andrew
College Police Department, and Office of Student Affairs. The Dean of Student Affairs is
responsible for the development, implementation, and evaluation of the Emergency Action Plan.
The Dean of Student Affairs also has the responsibility to communicate the elements of the
Emergency Action Plan to all students, faculty, and staff.
Procedures to Immediately Notify the Campus Community of a Confirmed
Significant Emergency or Immediate Threat:
Once the significant emergency or dangerous situation is confirmed, the President’s
Cabinet will immediately be notified. The Chief of Police or Dean of Student Affairs will
determine who to notify, the content of the notification, and issue a Campus Security Alert to
the campus community in the event of an imminent or ongoing threat to the community.
Campus Security Alerts are disseminated with the goal of notifying as many people as possible,
as rapidly as possible (i.e., active threats, bomb threats, or a dangerous chemical spill, etc.).
These alerts are sent via the One Call Now voicemail system and SMS text to all students and
staff. All students, faculty, and staff are encouraged to sign up to receive these notices at the
beginning of each semester. The following notifications are also utilized: emergency intercom
broadcast, e-mail, telephone, and messenger trees.
<<<SECTION>>>

Cases Involving Reports of Sexual Misconduct or Sexual Abuse

It is the policy of Andrew College (“Andrew College” or the “College”) to maintain an
environment that is free of all forms of discrimination and harassment, including sexual
misconduct for its community members. College community members include students, faculty,
administrators, staff, volunteers, vendors, contractors, visitors, minors, and individuals regularly
or temporarily employed, conducting business, studying, living, visiting, or having any official
33

capacity with the College or on its property. The College has enacted this Sexual Misconduct
Policy (the “Policy”) to reflect and maintain its institutional values and community expectations,
to provide for fair and equitable procedures for determining when this Policy has been violated,
and to provide recourse for individuals and the community in response to violations of this
Policy.
This Policy prohibits all forms of sexual harassment and discrimination, gender-based,
harassment and discrimination, and sexual assault, domestic violence, dating violence, and
stalking. This Policy also prohibits retaliation against a person who reports, complains about,
or who otherwise participates in good faith in any matter related to this Policy. All of the
foregoing conduct shall be referred to as “Prohibited Conduct.”
Andrew College does not discriminate on the basis of sex in its educational, extracurricular,
athletic, or other programs or in the context of employment. Sex discrimination is prohibited by
Title IX of the Education Amendments of 1972, a federal law that provides:
No person in the United States shall, on the basis of sex, be excluded from participation in, be denied the
benefits of, or be subjected to discrimination under any education program or activity receiving Federal financial
assistance.
Sexual harassment is also prohibited under Title IX and Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of
1964, and other applicable statutes. This Policy prohibits sexual harassment against Andrew
College community members of any sex in the context of education or employment. This
Policy also prohibits gender-based harassment that does not involve conduct of a sexual
nature. Sexual harassment cases involving two employees will be handled through the Title IX
process or Title VII of the Civil Rights Act depending on the alleged Prohibited Conduct.
Upon receipt of a Formal Complaint, the College will take prompt and equitable action to
eliminate the Prohibited Conduct (if any), prevent its recurrence, and remedy its effects.
In addition, the College will fulfill its obligations under the Violence Against Women
Reauthorization Act of 2013 (“VAWA”) amendments to the Jeanne Clery Disclosure of
Campus Security Policy and Campus Crime Statistics Act (“Clery Act”) in
response to reported Prohibited Conduct. Students, employees, or third parties who are found
to have violated this Policy may face disciplinary action up to and including expulsion
(students) or termination of employment or contractual relationship (employees or third party
contractors).
Andrew College also prohibits other forms of discrimination and harassment as described in
the Policy and Procedure Manual.
Scope of Policy
This Policy applies to all reports of Prohibited Conduct occurring on or after the effective date
of this Policy. Where the date of the reported conduct precedes the effective date of the revised
34

Policy, the definitions in existence at the time of the report will be used.
Where the date of the reported conduct precedes the effective date of the revised Policy, the
process in existence at that time will be used until such time as the revised process is adopted.
At the time of adoption of the revised Policy, the process under the revised Policy will apply.
The Grievance Process under this Policy, however, will be used to investigate and resolve all
reports made on or after the effective date of this Policy, regardless of when the incident(s)
occurred.
When used in this Policy, “Complainant” refers to an individual who is alleged to be the
victim of conduct that could constitute sexual harassment. “Respondent” refers to an
individual who has been reported to be the perpetrator of conduct that could constitute sexual
harassment. A “Third-Party” refers to any other participant in the process, including a witness
or an individual who makes a report on behalf of a Complainant.
The process begins with a Formal Complaint filed by a Complainant or signed by the Title IX
Coordinator alleging sexual misconduct against a Respondent and requesting that the College
investigate the allegation of sexual misconduct. The process could begin with an anonymous
complaint, however, the ability of the College to process this complaint could be compromised.
At the time of filing a Formal Complaint, a Complainant must be participating in or
attempting to participate in the education program or activity of the College.
Nothing in this Policy derogates the legal right of a parent or guardian acting on behalf of
the Complainant, Respondent, or Third-Party, including, but not limited to, filing a Formal
Complaint.
A possible violation of the Sexual Misconduct Policy is handled through an administrative
process. A Complainant may also pursue criminal or civil legal recourse concurrently. One is
not dependent upon another.
Persons Covered by the Policy
This Policy applies to all Andrew College community members, including students, faculty,
administrators, staff, volunteers, vendors, contractors, visitors, minors, and individuals
regularly or temporarily employed, conducting business, studying, living, visiting, or having any
official capacity with the College or on its property. Situations in which either one or both
parties are students will be resolved through the Title IX process. Situations in which both
parties are employees may be resolved through the process outlined in the Policy and Procedures
Manual or may be resolved through the Title IX process depending on the alleged Prohibited
Conduct.
The College strongly encourages reports of Prohibited Conduct regardless of who engaged in
the conduct. Even if the College does not have jurisdiction over the Respondent, the College
will take prompt action to provide for the safety and well- being of the Complainant and the
broader campus community. The College will provide supportive measures with or without a
35

Formal Complaint.
Locations Covered by the Policy
This Policy applies to the College’s educational program or activity which includes locations,
events, or circumstances over which the College exercises substantial control over both the
Complainant and Respondent and the context in which the sexual harassment occurs.
This Policy applies to all on-campus conduct. The College strongly encourages reports of
Prohibited Conduct. Even if the Policy does not apply to the conduct because of its location,
the College will take prompt action to provide for the safety and well-being of the Complainant
and the broader campus community under applicable College policies.
On-Campus Conduct. This Policy applies to conduct that occurs on-campus, including
conduct which occurs on property owned or controlled, leased, or managed by the College.
Policy also applies to any building owned or controlled by a student organization that is
officially recognized by the College.
College Programs. This Policy applies to conduct that occurs in the context of College
employment or education programs or activities, including, but not limited to, internship
programs or Athletic travel.
Off-Campus Conduct. This Policy applies to all conduct that occurs on College premises and
at College-sponsored activities. The College also has the discretion to discipline a student for
conduct that occurs off campus, if that conduct adversely affects the Andrew College
community and/or the pursuit of its objectives. Dean of Student Affairs, in their sole discretion
and on a case-by-case basis, decides whether campus proceedings should be initiated against a
student for conduct occurring off campus and refers to the appropriate office.
Definitions
Prohibited Conduct Definitions
This section defines specifically prohibited types of conduct based on sex or gender including
sex or gender-based harassment and discrimination and sexual misconduct.
Sexual Harassment means conduct on the basis of sex that satisfies one or more the following
points:
1. An employee of the College conditioning the provision of an aid, benefit, or service of
the College on an individual’s participation in unwelcome sexual conduct (also known as
Quid Pro Quo harassment)
2. Unwelcome conduct determined by a reasonable person to be so severe, pervasive, and
objectively offensive that it effectively denies a person equal access to the College’s
education program or activity. (also known as Hostile Environment)
3. Sexual Assault (defined below); or Dating Violence (defined below); or Domestic Violence
(defined below) or Stalking (defined below).
36

Both women and men may be sexually harassed. Sexual harassment may occur between males and
females and between persons of the same gender. Both subordinates and co- workers may be
vulnerable to sexual harassment. While a co-worker does not have the direct ability to hire or fire
another co-worker, the person may influence a job evaluation or create an intolerable working
environment which may be handled through the Title IX process or Title VII of the Civil Rights
Act as covered in Policy 703 Sexual and other Unlawful Harassment depending on the alleged
Prohibited Conduct.
Sexual harassment may be physical and/ or verbal in nature. Conduct that may be
considered sexual harassment include, but is not limited to the following examples of Sexual
Harassment:
• Unwanted sexual advances or comments
• Inappropriate or unwelcome touching of a person’s body
• Implied or overt threats of punitive employment or academic actions as a result of
rejection of sexual advances
More subtle incidents may also be considered sexual harassment. Examples of more subtle
sexual harassment include, but, are not limited to the following:
• Sending sexually-oriented emails and voice mails
• Sexual jokes
• Repeatedly asking for a date when the person has declined
• Display of sexually-oriented cartoons, objects, posters
• Indirect sexual innuendo such as voice inflection when complimenting appearance or
gazing at parts of the body other than the face
Gender-Based Harassment means harassment based on sex, gender identity, or gender
expression, which may include acts of aggression, intimidation, or hostility, whether verbal,
physical, graphic, or otherwise. To qualify as Gender-Based Harassment, the conduct need not
involve conduct of a sexual nature.
Harassing conduct can take many forms. The determination of whether an environment is
hostile is based on the totality of the circumstances, including but not limited to:
1. The frequency of the conduct;
2. The nature and severity of the conduct;
3. Whether the conduct was physically threatening;
4. The effect of the conduct on the Complainant’s mental or emotional state, with
consideration of whether the conduct unreasonably interfered with the Complainant’s
educational or work performance and/or College programs or activities;
5. Whether the conduct was directed at more than one person;
6. Whether the conduct arose in the context of other discriminatory conduct; and
7. Whether the conduct implicates concerns related to academic freedom or protected
speech.
37

A single isolated incident may create a hostile environment if the incident is sufficiently
severe, particularly if the conduct is physical.
Sexual Assault means an offense classified as a forcible or non-forcible sex offense
under the uniform crime reporting system of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, as
defined in 20 U.S.C. 1092(f)(6)(A)(v). Sexual intercourse includes vaginal or anal
penetration, however slight, with a body part (e.g., penis, tongue, finger, hand) or
object, or oral penetration involving mouth to genital contact.
Crime Definitions from the National Incident-Based Reporting System (NIBRS)
User Manual
(From the Federal Bureau of Investigation Uniform Crime Reporting Program Sex Offenses)
Any sexual act directed against another person, without the consent of the
complainant, including instances where the complainant is incapable of giving
consent.
A. Fondling - The touching of the private body parts of another person for the purpose of
sexual gratification, without the consent of the complainant, including instances where the
complainant is incapable of giving consent because of his/her age or because of his/her
temporary or permanent mental incapacity.
B. Incest - Sexual intercourse between persons who are related to each other within the
degrees wherein marriage is prohibited by law.
C. Statutory Rape - Sexual intercourse with a person who is under the statutory age of
consent.
(https://www.law.cornell.edu/cfr/text/34/appendix-A_to_subpart_D_of_part_668)
Domestic Violence includes felony or misdemeanor crimes of violence committed by a
current or former spouse or intimate partner of the complainant, by a person with whom the
complainant shares a child in common, by a person who is cohabitating with or has
cohabitated with the complainant as a spouse or intimate partner, by a person similarly
situated to a spouse of the complainant under the domestic or family violence laws of the
jurisdiction receiving grant monies, or by any other person against an adult or youth
complainant (ages 11-24) who is protected from that person’s acts under the domestic or
family violence laws of the jurisdiction. [34 USC 12291(a)(8)]
Dating Violence means violence committed by a person:
1. who is or has been in a social relationship of a romantic or intimate nature with
the complainant; and
2. where the existence of such a relationship shall be determined based on a
consideration of the following factors:
a. The length of the relationship.
b. The type of relationship.
c. The frequency of interaction between the persons involved in the

38

relationship.
[34 USC 12291(a)(10)]
Stalking means engaging in a course of conduct directed at a specific person that would
cause a reasonable person to:
1. fear for his or her safety or the safety of others; or
2. Suffer substantial emotional
distress.
[34USC 12291(a)(30)]
Retaliation
No recipient (the College) or other person may intimidate, threaten, coerce, or discriminate
against any individual for the purpose of interfering with any right or privilege secured by
Title IX or this part, or because the individual has made a report or complaint, testified,
assisted, or participated or refused to participate in any manner in an investigation,
proceeding, or hearing under this part.
Intimidation, threats, coercion, or discrimination, including charges against an individual for
code of conduct violations that do not involve sex discrimination or sexual harassment, but
arise out of the same facts or circumstances as a report or complaint of sex discrimination,
or a report or formal complaint of sexual harassment, for the purpose of interfering with any
right or privilege secured by Title IX or this part, constitutes retaliation.
Charging an individual with a code of conduct violation for making a materially false
statement in bad faith in the course of a grievance proceeding under this part does not
constitute retaliation prohibited under paragraph (a) of this section, provided, however,
that a determination regarding responsibility, alone, is not sufficient to conclude that any
party made a materially false statement in bad faith.
The College will take immediate and responsive action to any report of retaliation and will
pursue disciplinary action as appropriate. An individual reporting Prohibited Conduct is
entitled to protection from any form of retaliation following a report that is made in good
faith, even if the report is later not proven.
Additional Policy Definitions
This section defines other terms used within the Policy that are not previously defined as Prohibited
Conduct.
Advisor for the purposes of this Policy means any person of the Respondent or the
Complainant’s choosing to serve as the Advisor for the Title IX process. This person may be
an attorney, but does not have to be. The Advisor has specific responsibilities and
requirements for participation in the process which are outlined in the section on Rights of
the Respondent and Complainant. .
Business Day(s) refers to a Business Day or Business Days in which the College is open for
business. This is generally Monday through Friday, from 8:00 a.m. until 5:00 p.m. and excludes
weekends, holidays, designated closures including but not limited to weather delays and 39

closures.
Consent for the purposes of this Policy means that agreement to an activity is knowingly
and freely given and communicated, through words or actions, to create a mutual
understanding regarding the conduction of sexual activity.
Elements of consent include:
1. Consent is not valid when it involves:
a. Physical force, threats, or intimidation;
b. Minors under the age of consent,
c. Persons whose mental disabilities prohibit sound judgment;
d. Persons physically or mentally incapacitated, either voluntarily or
involuntarily, as a result of alcohol or other drug consumption; and
e. Individuals who are unconscious, unaware, or otherwise physically
incapacitated.
2. Silence cannot be interpreted as consent.
3. Lack of consent may also be communicated through the use of non-verbal
expressions or actions indicating resistance.
4. Consent may be withdrawn at any time.
5. Past consent to sexual activity with another person does not imply ongoing
future consent with that person or consent to that same sexual activity with
another person.
6. Whether a person has taken advantage of a position of influence over another
person may be a factor in determining consent.
Force means the use or threat of physical violence to overcome an individual’s freedom
of will to choose whether or not to participate in sexual activity or provide consent.
Consent obtained by force is not valid.
For the use of force to be demonstrated, there is no requirement that a Complainant
resist the sexual advance or request. However, evidence of resistance by the
Complainant will be viewed as a clear demonstration of a lack of consent.
Coercion means the improper use of pressure to compel another individual to initiate
or continue sexual activity against that individual’s will. Consent cannot be obtained
through coercion.
Coercion can include a wide range of behaviors, including intimidation, manipulation,
threats, and blackmail. A person’s words or conduct are sufficient to constitute coercion
if they wrongfully impair another individual’s freedom of will and ability to choose
whether or not to engage in sexual activity. Examples of coercion include, but are not
limited to:
•
•
•

Threatening to out someone based on sexual orientation, gender identity, or
gender expression or
Threatening to harm oneself if the other party does not engage in the sexual
activity. or
When someone indicates, verbally or physically, that they do not want to engage in a40
particular sexual activity, that they want to stop a particular activity, or that they do

not want to go past a certain point of sexual interaction, continued activity or
pressure to continue beyond that point can be coercive.
The College will evaluate the following in determining whether coercion was used:
1.
2.
3.
4.

The frequency of the application of pressure,
The intensity of the pressure,
The degree of isolation of the person being pressured, and
The duration of the pressure.

Incapacitation means a physical or mental state in which an individual cannot make an
informed and rational decision to engage in sexual activity because of a lack of conscious
understanding of the fact, nature, or extent of the act (e.g., to understand who, what,
when, where, why, or how of the sexual interaction) and/or is physically helpless.
Examples of incapacitation include, but are not limited to, individuals who:
•
•
•
•
•

Are asleep; or
Are unconscious; or
Are unaware that sexual activity is occurring; or
Cannot understand the nature of the activity or communicate due to a mental or
physical condition; or
Are under the influence of alcohol, drugs or other medication. Consumption of
alcohol or other drugs alone is insufficient to establish incapacitation.

The impact of alcohol and drugs varies from person to person, and evaluating
incapacitation requires an assessment of how the consumption of alcohol and/or drugs
impacts an individual’s:
1. Decision-making ability;
2. Awareness of consequences;
3. Ability to make informed judgments; or
4. Capacity to appreciate the nature and the quality of the act.
It shall not be a valid excuse that the Respondent believed that the Complainant
affirmatively consented to the sexual activity if the Respondent knew or reasonably
should have known that the Complainant was unable to consent to the sexual activity
under any of the following circumstances: (a) the Complainant was asleep or
unconscious; (b) the Complainant was incapacitated due to the influence of drugs,
alcohol, or medication, so that the Complainant could not understand the fact, nature, or
extent of the sexual activity; (c) the Complainant was unable to communicate due to a
mental or physical condition.
Whether the Respondent reasonably knew or should have known that the Complainant
was incapacitated will be evaluated using an objective reasonable person standard. The fact
that the Respondent was actually unaware of the Complainant’s incapacity is irrelevant to
this analysis. In particular, consent could not occur when:
• The Respondent failed to appreciate the Complainant’s incapacitation or;
41
• The Respondent failed to take reasonable steps to determine the Complainant’s
incapacitation or;

•

The Respondent’s own incapacitation (from alcohol or drugs) caused the
Respondent to misjudge the Complainant’s incapacity.

It is the responsibility of each Party to be aware of the intoxication level of the other
party before engaging in sexual activity. In general, sexual activity while under the
influence of alcohol or other drugs poses a risk to all Parties. If there is any doubt as to
the level or extent of the other individual’s intoxication, it is safest to forgo or cease any
sexual contact or activity.
Being intoxicated by drugs or alcohol is no defense to any violation of this Policy and
does not diminish one’s responsibility to obtain consent.
Privacy means that information related to a report of Prohibited Conduct will only be
shared with a limited circle of individuals who “need to know” in order to assist in the
assessment, investigation, or resolution of the report. While not bound by confidentiality,
these individuals will be discreet and respect the privacy of all individuals involved in the
process to the extent permitted by law.
The College is committed to protecting the privacy of all individuals involved in the
investigation and resolution of reports and Formal Complaints under this Policy. The
College also is committed to assisting students, employees, and third Parties in making
informed choices. With respect to any report or Formal Complaint under this Policy, the
College will make reasonable efforts to protect the privacy of participants, in accordance
with applicable state and federal law, while balancing the need to gather information to
take steps to eliminate Prohibited Conduct, prevent its recurrence, and remedy its effects.
Confidentiality means that information shared by an individual with designated campus
or community professionals will not be revealed to any other individual without the
expressed permission of the individual.
An individual who seeks confidential assistance may do so by speaking with
professionals who have a legally-protected confidentiality. (See the section on
Resources for how to report confidentially.)
Official with Authority means any official of the College who has authority to institute
corrective measures on behalf of the College (§106.30). Andrew College has designated
the following positions as Officials with Authority:
1. President of the College
2. Academic Dean
3. Dean of Student Affairs
4. Chief Financial Officer
5. Title IX Coordinator
Responsible Employee means any employee with the obligation to report sexual
harassment or the responsibility to inform a student how to report sexual harassment.
The College requires that all Responsible Employees share any report of misconduct
42
with the Title IX Coordinator. A Responsible Employee is anyone who:

1. Has the duty to report to appropriate College officials’ sexual harassment or any
other misconduct by students or employees; or
2. A student could reasonably believe has the responsibility to assist them. All College
employees who do not have legally protected confidentiality are considered
Responsible Employees. The mere ability or obligation to report sexual harassment
or to inform a student about how to report sexual harassment, or having been
trained to do so, does not qualify an individual as one who has authority to
institute corrective measures on behalf of the College.
3. A Responsible employee is any employee with supervisory or leadership
responsibilities on campus, including, but not limited to, all faculty (full time, part
time, and adjunct) Athletic staff (coaches, assistant coaches, trainers, and athletic
administrators) administrators (those with responsibilities for administering a
program or service); staff members, including Residence Life Coordinators and
Resident Assistants.
Complainant means an individual who is alleged to be the victim of conduct that could
constitute sexual harassment. (§106.30)
Respondent means an individual who has been reported to be the perpetrator of
conduct that could constitute sexual harassment. (§106.30)
Third-Party refers to any other participant in the process, including a witness or an individual
who makes a report on behalf of a Complainant.
Formal Complaint means a document filed by a complainant or signed by the Title IX
Coordinator alleging sexual harassment against a respondent and requesting that the College
investigate the allegation of sexual harassment. (§106.30)
Immunity for Complainant
Andrew College encourages the reporting of conduct violations and crimes that occur on campus or against
Andrew College students. A complainant might be hesitant to report a crime to a College official for fear
of being charged with a policy violation themselves (i.e., underage drinking at the time of a sexual assault).
It is in the best interest of the Andrew College community that a complainant of a crime reports the
incident to a College official. To encourage reporting, Andrew College offers complainant of crimes, and
may offer those who assist complainant of crimes, amnesty from College policy violations related to the
incident. Such amnesty is given at the discretion of the Dean of Student Affairs or their designee.
Reporting Options and Resources
On-Campus Reporting Options
The College strongly encourages all individuals to report any violation of this Policy to
the Title IX Coordinator or any College employee who is designated as an Official with
Authority. The College recommends that individuals report Prohibited Conduct to any
of the following offices or individuals:
1. Officials with Authority (See information above.)
2. Responsible Employee (See information above.)
3. The Title IX Coordinator or Deputy Coordinator (See information below.)
4. A Confidential Report (See information below.)
5. Andrew College Police (See information below.)
Title IX Coordinator and Deputy Coordinators

43

Andrew College has designated the following individuals to serve in official capacity
regarding Title IX reporting.
Name

Title IX Position

Office

Phone

Email

Jennifer Mitchell Title IX Coordinator Business
Office

229-732-5946 jennifermitchell@andrewcollege.edu

James McCoy

229-732-5950

Deputy Title IX
Coordinator

Old Main

jamesmccoy@andrewcollege.edu

The Title IX Coordinator, assisted by Deputy Coordinator, is responsible for the
following:
• Ensuring Title IX compliance
• Assessing initial intake reports
• Knowledgeable in College policies and procedures
• Provides information about resources available to both the Complainant and the
Respondent
• Assigning appropriate investigators to individual cases
• Identifying the appropriate College policy to resolve the complaint in a prompt
and equitable manner
• Tracking and monitoring incidents of sex discrimination and sexual misconduct
• Providing information on options for complaint resolution
• Coordinating education and prevention efforts
• Reporting crimes to the Clery Administrator for reporting in the Annual Security
Report (ASR)
Confidential Reporting on Campus
The confidential resource available to individuals on campus are:
Chaplain
Rev. Dr. Ivelisse Quinones
Phone: 706-580-0168
Email: ivelissequinones@andrewcollege.edu
These confidential resource are not required by current Title IX law to report claims of
sexual misconduct without consent. A confidential report is required by state law to
notify child protective services and/or local law enforcement of suspected abuse of a
minor under the age of 18 years of age. Those in positions designated as Confidential
Reports may have a duty to report incidents of sexual misconduct for the purposes of
reporting numbers for the Annual Security Report (ASR), but are not obligated to report
the details of the incidents including the names of potential complainants or respondents
except as required by their license and professional ethics.
Law Enforcement Reporting Options On and Off Campus
Complainants have the right to notify or decline to notify law enforcement. The College44
strongly encourages all individuals to seek assistance from law enforcement

immediately after an incident of Sexual Misconduct. This is the best option to ensure
preservation of evidence and to begin a timely investigative and remedial response. The
College will assist any Andrew College community member in securing a safe place to go;
assist in arranging for transportation to the hospital should the Complainant need
medical care or assistance.; and assist in coordination with law enforcement, and
information about on-campus and off-campus resources and options for resolution.
Campus Police have officers on duty twenty-four (24) hours a day. You may
report crimes or other emergencies by calling:
Emergency Assistance

911

Campus Police Office (ACPD)

229-732-5919

Local Dispatch (non-emergency)

229-732-6454

Supportive Measures
Supportive Measures are non-disciplinary services offered as appropriate, as reasonably
available, and without fee or charge to both the Complainant and the Respondent before
or after the filing of a Formal Complaint or where no Formal Complaint has been filed.
These Supportive Measures are designed to restore or preserve equal access to the
College’s education program or activity without unreasonably burdening Complainant
and Respondent, including measures designed to protect the safety of all Parties or the
College’s educational environment, or deter sexual harassment. The College offers
support to Complainants and Respondents through access to the following services:

Supportive Measures for Students
•
•
•
•
•
•
•

Access to counseling services on campus;
Change in on-campus housing assignment and assistance from College
support staff in completing housing relocation;
Provide academic support services, such as tutoring, extensions of deadlines or
other course-related adjustments, class schedules;
Change in work schedule or job assignment;
Mutual restrictions on contact between the parties;
Provide information regarding off-campus services;
Provide other Supportive Measures as appropriate.

Supportive Measures for Employees
•
•
•
•
•
•

Modification of work schedule;
Mutual restrictions on contact between the parties;
Changes in work or on-campus housing locations;
Leaves of absence;
Increased security and monitoring of certain areas of campus;
Provide other Supportive Measures as appropriate.

45

A Complainant or a Respondent may request a “No-Contact Order” or other
protection, or the College may choose to use Supportive Measures at its discretion to
ensure the safety of all Parties, the broader College community, and/or the integrity of
the process.
The College will maintain the privacy of any Supportive Measures provided under this
Policy to the extent practicable and will promptly address any violation of the Supportive
Measures put in place. All individuals are encouraged to report concerns about failure of
another individual to abide by any restrictions imposed by a Supportive Measures. The
College will take immediate and responsive action to enforce a previously implemented
restriction if such restriction was violated.
Emergency Removal
Nothing in this Policy precludes the College from removing a Respondent from the
College’s education program or activity on an emergency basis, provided that the
College undertakes an individualized safety and risk analysis, determines that an
immediate threat to the physical health or safety of any student or other individual
arising from the allegations of sexual harassment justifies removal, and provides the
Respondent with notice and an opportunity to challenge the decision immediately
following the removal. This provision may not be construed to modify any rights
under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, Section 504 of the
Rehabilitation Act of 1973, or the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990.
In the event that an Emergency Removal is enacted, the Respondent has the opportunity
to submit in writing a challenge to the emergency removal. The challenge to the
emergency removal must contain all information, documentation, and evidence that the
Respondent wants to have considered in requesting to remain on campus. The Dean of
Student Affairs will receive the written materials and appoint an Appeals Officer, either
the Academic Dean or the Chief Financial Officer. The Appeals Officer is separate from
investigators, hearing panel members, and decision-makers. The Appeals Officer will
review all materials and determine if the Emergency Removal is in the best interest of
the Complainant and/or the Respondent and/or is in the best interest of the safety of
the campus community. The Appeal Officer’s decision is final and binding regarding the
Emergency Removal.
Administrative Leave
Nothing in this Policy precludes the College from placing a non-student employee
Respondent on administrative leave during the pendency of this process. This provision
may not be construed to modify any rights under Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act
of 1973 or the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990.
Educational Programming and Prevention
The College offers a variety of educational programs on Sexual Misconduct aimed at 46

prevention and awareness of sexual assault, stalking, dating violence, and sexual
harassment. Students are required to complete an online course on Sexual Misconduct as
well as an online course on Alcohol upon entering the College. Other programming
includes Sexual Assault and Domestic Violence Awareness Week, Alcohol Awareness,
Bystander Intervention education, and Sexual Misconduct Information Sessions during
orientation. Employees are required to complete Sexual Misconduct Education online.
Andrew College Grievance Procedures for Resolving Allegations of
Sexual Misconduct - General Information
The following outlines the procedures the College follows in resolving allegations by a
Complainant against a Respondent in violation of the College’s Sexual Misconduct
Policy. Complainant and Respondent will be referred to collectively as the “Parties.”
This is an administrative process.
Situations in which both Complainant and Respondent are employees of the College may
be handled through the processes outlined in the Policy and Procedure Manual or through
the Title IX process depending upon the alleged Prohibited Conduct.
The Title IX Coordinator and the Title IX team, will coordinate resolution of all
reports of Prohibited Conduct defined in the Andrew College Sexual Misconduct Policy.
Prohibited Conduct Not Based on Sex
Prohibited Conduct (discrimination, harassment or retaliation) based on protected status
other than sex (e.g., race, color, age, disability, veteran status or other classification
protected by federal or state law or College policies) is prohibited by other College
policies. These policies prohibiting other forms of discrimination and harassment are
described in the Policy and Procedures Manual. In the event of such complaints, the
College will identify, based upon the allegations, the appropriate office to coordinate
resolution of the report.
Dismissal of Formal Complaint
If the conduct alleged in the Formal Complaint would not constitute sexual harassment
as defined in this Policy even if proved, or did not occur in the College’s education
program or activity, or did not occur against a person in the United States, then the
College must dismiss the Formal Complaint with regard to that conduct for purposes of
sexual harassment under this Policy. However, such a dismissal does not preclude action
under another provision of the College’s Code of Conduct for students published in the
Guide to Student Life.
The College may dismiss the Formal Complaint or any allegations therein, if at any time
during the investigation or hearing:
1. A Complainant notifies the Title IX Coordinator in writing that the Complainant
would like to withdraw the formal complaint or any allegations therein;
2. The Respondent is no longer enrolled or employed by the College; or
47
3. Specific circumstances prevent the College from gathering evidence sufficient to

reach a determination as to the Formal Complaint or allegations therein.
Upon dismissal of the Formal Complaint either required or permitted, the College will
promptly send written notice of the dismissal and reasons for the dismissal
simultaneously to each Party through email, the College’s official means of
communication (See the Guide to Student Life.). Either the Complainant or the
Respondent has the right to appeal the decision to dismiss a Formal Complaint.
Consolidation of Formal Complaints
The College may consolidate Formal Complaints as to allegations of sexual harassment
against more than one Respondent, or by more than one Complainant against one or
more Respondents, or by one Party against another Party, where the allegations of sexual
harassment arise out of the same facts or circumstances.
Rights of Respondent and Complainant
• Right to be informed of the process and all available options
• Right to be informed of resources
• Right to Supportive Measures
• Right to a timely investigation
• Right to an Advisor of choice
• Right to review report
• Right to appeal
Advisor
Both Complainant and Respondent have the right to have an Advisor of their choice. It
is the responsibility of the Complainant and Respondent to communicate with the
Advisor regarding allegations, times and dates of meetings, hearings, outcomes and any
other information regarding the case. The Investigators, Title IX Coordinator, Assistant
Coordinator, and Deputy Coordinators will not discuss the case with any Advisor. The
Advisor may:
•

•
•
•
•
•

•

Attend any meeting or hearing with the respective Complainant or
Respondent regarding the case, if invited by the respective Complainant or
Respondent
May not participate directly in any meeting involving the case
May provide advice to the Complainant or the Respondent he/she is advising
through quiet conversation or written notes in any meeting related to the case
May be a member of the College community, but is not required to be.
May be an attorney, but, is not required to be.
If a party does not have an advisor present at the Live Hearing, the College
must provide without fee or charge to that party, an Advisor of the College’s
choice, who may be, but is not required to be, an attorney, to conduct crossexamination on behalf of that party. [§106.45 (b)(6) (i)]
At the Live Hearing, the decision-maker(s) must permit each party’s Advisor to
ask the other party and any witnesses all relevant questions and follow-up
48
questions, including those challenging credibility. [§106.45 (b)(6) (i)]

Step by Step Process
Actual Knowledge
The Title IX grievance process begins with Actual Knowledge. Actual knowledge means
notice of sexual harassment or allegations of sexual harassment to the College’s Title IX
Coordinator or any Official with Authority who has authority to institute corrective
measures on behalf of the College. [§106.30]. The actual knowledge standard is not met
when the only official of the College with actual knowledge is the Respondent.
Actual Knowledge may come in the form of a Formal Complaint.

Intake meeting with Complainant
With or without a Formal Complaint, the Title IX Coordinator must promptly contact
the Complainant to discuss the availability of Supportive Measures, consider the
Complainant’s wishes with respect to supportive measures, and explain to the
Complainant the process for filing a Formal Complaint.
• Address immediate physical safety and emotional well-being needs
• Notify the Complainant of the right to contact law enforcement and seek
medical treatment (and the right to decline to do so), and the importance of
preservation of evidence
• Notify the Complainant of the right to be assisted by individuals at the College in
contacting law enforcement
• Notify the Complainant of confidential and non-confidential reporting options
on and off campus
• Provide the Complainant with information about:
o On and off campus resources, including counseling, health, mental health,
and victim advocacy;
o The range of Supportive Measures and remedies, including changes to
academic, living, transportation, and/or working situations, or other
protective measures, which are available to the Complainant and the
Respondent regardless of whether the Complainant files a Formal
Complaint with the College or other action with local law enforcement.
• Provide an overview of the procedural options and process, including Informal
Resolution and Formal Resolution. This overview would include explanation that
the Complainant will receive written notice of the date, time, location, participants,
and purpose of all hearings, investigative interviews, or other meetings, with
sufficient time for the Complainant to prepare to participate.
• Explain that if, in the course of an investigation, the College decides to
investigate allegations about the Complainant or the Respondent that are not
included in the notice described above, the College will provide notice of the
additional allegations to the Parties.
• Provide notice of any provision in the College’s Code of Conduct or Policy and
Procedure Manual that prohibits knowingly making false statements or knowingly
submitting false information during the grievance process.
• Explain the right to object to the assignment of the Title IX Coordinator, Deputy
Title IX Coordinator or Investigators based on bias or conflict of interest within 1
(one)Business Day of a decision to proceed through the process;
• Explain that the student has a right to an Advisor of their choice during the
49
process;

•
•
•
•
•

Assess for pattern of evidence or other similar conduct if possible;
Explain the College’s immunity/amnesty policy as published above in this
document;
Explain the College’s policy prohibiting retaliation as listed in the Standards of
Conduct in the Code of Student Conduct;
Respondent is presumed not responsible for the alleged conduct and any
determination regarding responsibility is made at the conclusion of the process;
If the Title IX Coordinator dismisses the Formal Complaint or any allegations
therein, both Complainant and Respondent have the right to appeal that
decision.

At the Intake Meeting, the Coordinator or Deputy Coordinator will provide the
Complainant with the above-listed information in writing. If the Intake Meeting is
conducted by a Deputy Coordinator, the meeting report will be submitted to the
Coordinator for consideration. As described in the Sexual Misconduct Policy, the
Complainant has the right to request that the Title IX Coordinator not share the
Complainant’s name (or other identifiable information) with the Respondent, or that the
Title IX office take no formal action in response to the report. If the Complainant makes
such a request, the Coordinator will balance the request with his/her dual obligation to
provide a safe and nondiscriminatory environment for all College community members,
and to remain true to principles of fundamental fairness that require the College to
provide the Respondent with notice of the allegations and an opportunity to respond
before action is taken against the Respondent.
The Coordinator will make this determination consistent with the following
considerations, namely:
1. The seriousness of the conduct;
2. The respective ages and roles of the Complainant and the Respondent:
3. Whether there have been other complaints or reports of Prohibited Conduct
against the Respondent; and
4. The right of the Respondent to receive notice and relevant information before
disciplinary action is sought.
Should the Coordinator determine that, in response to the Complainant’s request,
the College can satisfy its obligations to the Complainant, the College community
members, and the Respondent without proceeding through the process described
herein, the Coordinator has the discretion to do so.
Absent a request for confidentiality as described above, the Coordinator or Deputy
Coordinator will interview the Complainant to gain a basic understanding of the
reported Prohibited Conduct. The interview will focus on key facts upon which the
Complainant bases the report (i.e., who, what, where, and when) to assess how to
proceed. At the conclusion of the Intake Meeting, and if the individual wishes to move
forward with a complaint, the Coordinator will make two threshold determinations:
1. Does the Complainant’s report state facts that, if true, could constitute a violation of
50
the College’s Sexual Misconduct Policy?

2.

If yes, should the College proceed through Informal Resolution?

The Title IX Coordinator will make both threshold determinations as soon as possible
after the Intake Meeting with the Complainant and communicate that finding in writing to
the Complainant.

Initial interview with Respondent
The College will provide written notice to Respondent of the allegations of sexual
harassment including sufficient details known at the time and with sufficient time to
prepare a response before any initial interview.
The Title IX Coordinator or Deputy Coordinator will schedule an initial interview with the
Respondent and to discuss the availability of Supportive Measures, consider the
Respondent’s wishes with respect to supportive measures, and explain to the
Respondent the process for resolving a Formal Complaint.
• Address immediate physical safety and emotional well-being needs;
• Notify the Respondent of the right to contact law enforcement and seek medical
treatment (and the right to decline to do so), and the importance of preservation of
evidence;
• Notify the Respondent of the right to be assisted by individuals at the College in
contacting law enforcement;
• Notify the Respondent of confidential and non-confidential reporting options on
and off campus;
• Provide the Respondent with information about:
o On and off campus resources, including counseling, health, mental health,
and victim advocacy;
o The range of Supportive Measures and remedies, including changes to
academic, living, transportation, and/or working situations, or other
protective measures, which are available to the Complainant and the
Respondent regardless of whether the Complainant files a Formal
Complaint with the College or other action with local law enforcement
• Provide an overview of the procedural options and process, including Informal
Resolution and Formal Resolution. This overview would include explanation that
the Complainant will receive written notice of the date, time, location, participants,
and purpose of all hearings, investigative interviews, or other meetings, with
sufficient time for the Respondent to prepare to participate;
• Explain that if, in the course of an investigation, the College decides to
investigate allegations about the Complainant or the Respondent that are not
included in the notice described above, the College will provide notice of the
additional allegations to the Parties;
• Provide notice of any provision in the College’s Code of Conduct or Policy and
Procedure Manual that prohibits knowingly making false statements or knowingly
submitting false information during the grievance process;
• Explain the right to object to the assignment of the Title IX Coordinator, Deputy
Title IX Coordinator or Investigators based on bias or conflict of interest within five
Business Day of a decision to proceed through the process;
• Explain that the student has a right to an Advisor of their choice during the
process;
51
• Assess for pattern of evidence or other similar conduct if possible;

•
•
•
•

Explain the College’s immunity/amnesty policy as published above in this
document;
Explain the College’s policy prohibiting retaliation as listed in the Standards of
Conduct in the Code of Student Conduct;
Respondent is presumed not responsible for the alleged conduct and any
determination regarding responsibility is made at the conclusion of the process;
If the Title IX Coordinator dismisses the Formal Complaint or any allegations
therein, both Complainant and Respondent have the right to appeal that
decision.

Determining Course of Resolution for the Grievance
As an alternative to Formal Resolution, and only if the Title IX Coordinator
determines that it is appropriate, the Parties may choose to resolve complaints
through Informal Resolution. Informal Resolution must be mutually agreed upon in
writing by both parties in any case.
Some complaints that allege harassment may be appropriate for Informal Resolution.
The purpose of an Informal Resolution is to stop the inappropriate behavior. The
process will not be used to resolve allegations that an employee sexually harassed a
student. Sec. 106.45(b)(9). If the Title IX Coordinator determines that the Formal
Complaint may be resolved appropriately through informal resolution, the Title IX
Coordinator will ask the Complainant and the Respondent, separately, whether they
would agree to pursue resolution of the complaint informally. The parties must
voluntarily agree, in writing, to consent to use the Informal Resolution process. Any
resolution reached through an informal process will be confirmed in writing and
provided to the parties.
Informal Resolution
An Informal Resolution process cannot begin unless a Formal Complaint is filed. An
individual who feels she/he is being harassed may seek to resolve the matter informally.
Examples of informal ways to resolve a complaint of sexual harassment may include:
•
•
•
•

A supervisor counsels the respondent to stop the alleged misconduct; or
Confronting the respondent face to face; or
Writing a letter to the respondent; or
Requesting advice and/or intervention from a Title IX Coordinator or third
party.

The main purpose of the Informal Resolution procedure is to stop the inappropriate
behavior.
To proceed with Informal Resolution, the College must provide the parties with written
notice:
1. Disclosing the allegations, and
2. The requirements of the Informal Resolution process including the circumstances
under which the parties could be precluded from resuming a Formal Resolution 52
process arising from the same allegations; and

3. That no party can be required as a condition of enrollment or continuing
enrollment, or employment or continuing employment, or enjoyment of any other
right, to waive their right to an investigation and adjudication of a Formal
Complaint.
Any Party (including the Title IX Coordinator) may terminate the Informal Resolution
process at any time up until the Informal Resolution becomes binding. In that event,
the Title IX Coordinator will so notify the Parties in writing via official College email
and will describe next steps and timeframes for the Formal Resolution. If the Parties
reach agreement, the matter is closed. If not, the Parties will proceed with Formal
Resolution set forth in the section on Formal Resolution below.
At the conclusion of an Informal Resolution, and upon receipt of official notification via
College email, the Complainant and the Respondent have 3 (three) Business Days to
change their mind about the resolution of the case. If either the Complainant or the
Respondent changes their mind regarding the agreed upon resolution, they must do so in
writing and submit it to the Title IX Coordinator. Should the Party’s request not be
received in writing (including electronically), or does not submit within 3 (three) Business
Days, the informal resolution will be considered final and binding.
Formal Resolution
A Formal Resolution process cannot begin unless a Formal Complaint is filed. If the
Title IX Coordinator determines that the Complainant’s report must proceed through
Formal Resolution, the Title IX Coordinator will notify both Parties, in writing, of the
decision. The Title IX Coordinator’s written notification to the Respondent will state
facts sufficient to apprise the Respondent of the nature of the allegations, including,
specifically:
1. Complainant’s name
2. Nature of the Report
3. Specific policy violations (example: sexual assault, sexual harassment, retaliation)
4. Date of alleged policy violations
5. Time of alleged policy violations
6. Location of alleged policy violations
7. Brief description of allegations
Investigation
All investigations will be conducted in a timely and impartial manner. The Parties will be
informed of the projected timeline for conclusion of the process. There may be
temporary delays of the process and limited extensions of time frame for good cause.
The Parties will be provided written notice of the delay and reasons for such delay.
The Title IX Coordinator will select trained internal investigators to conduct a
reasonable, impartial, and prompt investigation of the complaint. The Title IX
Coordinator will select Investigators based on several factors, including:
• The Parties involved,
• The complexity of the complaint,

53

•

The need to avoid any potential conflict of interest, and who may best conduct a
fair and equitable investigation for all Parties involved.

The Title IX Coordinator will notify the Parties, in writing, of the name of the designated
Investigators at the time the Coordinator issues the notice of a Formal Resolution
process. Both Parties will have 3 (three) Business Days to object to the Investigators
selected on the basis of bias or conflict of interest. If either of the Parties objects, the
Title IX Coordinator will evaluate whether the objection is substantiated. The Title IX
Coordinator will remove and replace any Investigator the Title IX Coordinator finds to
have a bias or conflict of interest against either Party. The Title IX Coordinator’s decision
is final and cannot be appealed.
The Investigators will commence the investigation once the time for the Parties to
object to the selected investigators has expired or, if an objection is made, and the Title
IX Coordinator determines the objection is not substantiated, from the time the Title
IX Coordinator notifies the objecting party of the determination). The Investigators, in
consultation with the Title IX Coordinator, will establish a preliminary timeline and
process for conducting the investigation and report the timeline to the Parties. The
Parties will also be notified in writing of any delays and the new timeline.
Step One: Fact-Gathering
The Investigators will interview both Parties and relevant witnesses, including fact and
expert witnesses, and gather documentary evidence provided by the Parties and any
identified witnesses. This evidence will include both inculpatory and exculpatory
evidence. The burden of gathering evidence sufficient to reach a determination
regarding responsibility rests on the College and not on the Parties.
The Investigators will prepare a summary of each interview (“Interview Summary”). The
Investigators will share the Interview Summary with the interviewee. The interviewee will
have the opportunity to correct or comment on any statements made in the Interview
Summary.
If the interviewee has no corrections to, or comments on, the Interview Summary, the
interviewee will sign an acknowledgement that the interviewee has reviewed and agrees
that the Interview Summary is accurate. If the interviewee has corrections or comments to
the Interview Summary, the interviewee may submit a written response directly to the
Investigators within 5 (five) Business Days reflecting any additions or changes which the
interviewee believes are necessary to ensure the accuracy of the interviewee’s statement. If
no response is received from the interviewee, their Interview Summary may be included in
the Investigative Title IX report and will be presumed to be accurate. In all instances
where the Investigators include the Interview Summary as an exhibit to a report, the
Investigators will also include any response.
The Investigators may use, if available, all of the following, but, are not limited to the
following:
• Police Reports
54
• Video or Audio recordings

•
•
•

Witness statements
Campus Reports (scan logs, campus business, required programs completed)
All other appropriate reports, recordings, etc.

The College cannot access, consider, disclose, or otherwise use a Party’s records that are
made or maintained by a physician, psychiatrist, psychologist, or other recognized
professional or paraprofessional acting in the professional’s or paraprofessional’s capacity, or
treatment to the Party, unless the College obtains that Party’s voluntary, written consent.
Step Two: Rebuttal Fact-Gathering
The Investigator may conduct follow-up interviews with both Parties and witnesses based
upon testimonial and documentary evidence gathered during Initial Fact- Gathering. The
Parties and witnesses can expect that, in these follow-up interviews, the Investigator will
seek responses to specific allegations or evidence. To the extent additional material,
witnesses or evidence are identified during Rebuttal Fact-Gathering, the Investigator will
conduct additional interviews and gather additional evidence.
Rebuttal Fact Gathering may be repeated as necessary to ensure a complete gathering of
evidence.
Step Three: Preliminary Report
1. The Investigators will prepare a Preliminary Report. The Preliminary Report is a
written summary of the evidence gathered in the course of the Preliminary
Investigation.
2. The Investigators will state specific factual findings in the Preliminary Report
(e.g., “Complainant was incapacitated” or “Respondent believed that
Complainant was not incapacitated”).
3. The standard for determining each factual finding is Preponderance of Evidence
standard. This standard of proof is that the evidence presented during the
investigation must be considered to be more likely than not to be factual.
4. The Investigators will not state ultimate findings as to whether the Respondent
has, or has not, violated one or more of the College’s policies.
5. The Investigators will attach as exhibits to the Preliminary Report all Interview
Summaries and any documentary evidence gathered as part of the investigation that
is directly related to the allegations in the Formal Complaint, including any evidence
upon which the College does not intend to rely in reaching a determination
regarding responsibility and any inculpatory or exculpatory evidence whether
obtained from a Party or other source.
6. When the Investigators determine that the Preliminary Investigation is complete,
the Investigators will submit the Preliminary Report to the Title IX Coordinator.
The Title IX Coordinator may require the Investigators to conduct additional
investigation; if so, the Investigators will conduct additional investigation consistent
with the procedures outlined above.
Step Four: Notice of Preliminary Investigation Findings and Opportunity to Respond
1. Once the Title IX Coordinator has agreed that the Preliminary Investigation is
complete, the Title IX Coordinator will provide the Preliminary Report to the
Parties and Advisor, if any, for review. Neither the Title IX Complainant nor the
Respondent (or their Advisors, including but not limited to family members and/or
legal counsel) may copy, remove, photograph, print, image, videotape, record, or in 55
any manner otherwise duplicate or remove the information provided.

2.

3.
4.

5.
6.

a. The Parties may respond to the Preliminary Report; the Parties will have
ten (10) Business Days to submit any response of being notified of their
opportunity to review the report. The Parties may respond in one or both
of the following ways:
i. The Parties may provide a written response to the Preliminary
Report, or any portion of it, including each Interview Summary. The
Investigators will consider any written response provided by the
Parties in preparing the Investigative Report.
ii. The Parties may submit a written request for additional investigation.
Such requests may include, but are not limited to, the following:
1. Request for follow-up interviews
2. Requests for interviews with new witnesses
3. Requests to consider new information
If neither of the Parties requests additional investigation, the Investigators will
prepare the Final Investigative Report. If either (or both) Parties request
additional investigation, the Investigators will review the request(s) in
consultation with the Title IX Coordinator.
The Investigators will conduct the requested additional investigation if the
Investigators, in consultation with the Title IX Coordinator, determine that the
request(s) will assist the Investigators in completing the investigation.
The Investigators and Title IX Coordinator will assess whether investigation of
the additional information requires a substantial deviation from the recommended
timeframe for completion of the investigation. If so, the Title IX Coordinator will
notify the Parties in writing with an anticipated revised timeframe.
If the Investigators conduct additional investigation, the Investigator will prepare an
Addendum to the Preliminary Report (“Addendum”).
The Investigators will submit the Addendum to the Title IX Coordinator. The Title
IX Coordinator may require the Investigators to conduct additional investigation
before the Addendum is complete.

Step Five: Final Investigative Report
1. The Investigators will prepare a Final Investigative Report. The Final Investigative
Report consists of the testimonial and documentary evidence from the Preliminary
Investigation, the Preliminary Report, the Addendum (if applicable), and all of the
Parties’ responses throughout the Formal Resolution proceeding.
2. When the Investigators are satisfied that the Final Investigative Report is
complete, the Investigators will submit the Final Investigative Report including
recommended findings or recommended conclusions to the Title IX
Coordinator. The decision-maker in the case is under an independent obligation
to evaluate objectively all relevant evidence and not defer to any
recommendations in the Final Investigative Report.
3. The Title IX Coordinator will review the Final Investigative Report.
4. The Title IX Coordinator will provide to each Party and the Party’s Advisor, if any, a
copy of the Final Investigative Report in an electronic or hard copy. Neither the
Complainant nor the Respondent (or their Advisors, including but not limited to
family members and/or legal counsel) may copy, remove, photograph, print, image,
videotape, record, or in any manner otherwise duplicate or remove the information
provided.
5. No sooner than 10 (ten) Business Days after sending the Final Investigative
Report, the Title IX Coordinator will meet individually with the Complainant
56
and the Respondent.

If both Parties wish to resolve the case without an adjudication, the Title IX
Coordinator can facilitate an Informal Resolution of the Formal Complaint that does
not necessitate a full adjudication. The Parties must agree to this Informal Resolution
in writing. [106.45(b)(9)] At the conclusion of an Informal Resolution, and upon
receipt of official notification via College email, the Complainant and the Respondent
have 3 (three) Business Days to change their mind about the resolution of the case. If
either the Complainant or the Respondent changes their mind regarding the agreed
upon resolution, they must do so in writing and
submit it to the Title IX Coordinator. Should the Party’s request not be received in
writing (including electronically), or does not submit within 3 (three) Business
Days, the informal resolution will be considered final and binding.
6. If either of the Parties do not wish to participate in the Informal Resolution prior
to an adjudication by the hearing panel, the Title IX Coordinator will schedule a
hearing on the case not less than 10 (ten) Business Days from the meeting to
schedule the Live Hearing.
Step Six: Live Hearing
1. Live Hearings are administrative hearings.
2. Live Hearings will be conducted with all parties physically present in the same
geographic location or, at the College’s discretion, any or all parties, witnesses,
and other participants may appear at the Live Hearing virtually, with technology
enabling participants simultaneously to see and hear each other.
3. The College must create an audio or audiovisual recording, or transcript, of any
Live Hearing and make it available to the parties for inspection and review.
4. The Standard of Evidence is Preponderance of Evidence throughout the Title IX
Process including Live Hearings.
5. Cross-examination is allowed with specific rules.
a. At the Live Hearing, the decision-maker(s) must permit each party’s
Advisor to ask the other Party and any witnesses all relevant questions
and follow-up questions, including those challenging credibility.
b. Such cross-examination at the Live Hearing must be conducted directly,
orally, and in real time by the Party’s Advisor of choice and never by a Party
personally, notwithstanding the discretion of the College under Sec.<<<SECTION>>> (b)(5)(iv) to otherwise restrict the extent to which Advisors may
participate in the proceedings. Other than cross-examination, Advisers may
not participate in the hearing and may only communicate with the Party
whom they advise in the case through whispers or written word.
c. If a Party does not have an Advisor present at the Live Hearing, the
College must provide without fee or charge to that Party, an Advisor of
the College’s s choice, who may be, but is not required to be, an attorney, to
conduct cross-examination on behalf of that Party [§106.45 (b)(6) (i)]
d. Only relevant cross-examination and other questions may be asked of a
Party or witness as determined by the hearing panel chair.
e. Before a Complainant, a Respondent, or a witness answers a crossexamination or other question, the decision-maker(s) must first determine
whether the question is relevant and explain any decision to exclude a
question as not relevant.
f. Questions and evidence about the Complainant’s sexual predisposition or
prior sexual behavior are not relevant, unless such questions and evidence
about the Complainant’s prior sexual behavior are offered to prove that
someone other than the Respondent committed the conduct alleged by the 57
Complainant, or if the questions and evidence concern specific incidents of

the Complainant’s prior sexual behavior with respect to the Respondent
and are offered to prove consent.
6. Each Party will receive written notification of the outcome of the Live Hearing.
The notification will include the following elements:
a. Determination of responsibility including identification of the allegations
which constitute sexual harassment.
b. Procedural steps taken from the receipt of the Formal Complaint through
the determination including notifications to the Parties, interviews with
the Parties, witnesses, site visits, and methods used to gather information.
c. Findings of fact supporting the determination
d. Conclusions regarding the application of the College’s code of conduct to
the facts
e. A statement of, and rationale for, the result as to each allegation, including a
determination regarding responsibility, any disciplinary sanctions the College
imposes on the Respondent, and whether remedies designed to restore or
preserve equal access to the College’s education program or activity will be
provided by the College to the Complainant.
f. Description of permissible procedures for appeal

Order and rules for Live Hearing
1. Introduction
a. Introduction of all Parties, including: Complainant, Respondent, Witnesses,
Advisors, Investigators, Hearing Panel, and any Title IX staff.
b. Review of Procedures and reminders about appropriate decorum of those
present
2. Presentation of the Final Investigative Report
a. Investigator presents the Final Investigative Report
b. Questions by Hearing Panel of the Investigator
c. Questions by Complainant of the Investigator
d. Questions by the Respondent of the Investigator
3. Presentation of Complainant’s Case
a. Opening Statement by Complainant
b. Questions by the Hearing Panel of Complainant.
c. Cross-examination of Complainant by Respondent’s Advisor. All crossexamination questions must be approved by Hearing Panel chair prior to
answering.
d. Statement of Complainant’s Witnesses
e. Questions by the Hearing Panel of Complainant’s Witnesses.
f. Cross-examination of witnesses by Respondent’s Advisor. All crossexamination questions must be approved by Hearing Panel Chair prior to
answering.
4. Presentation of Respondent’s Case
a. Opening Statement by Respondent
b. Questions by Hearing Panel of Respondent.
c. Cross-examination of Respondent by Complainant’s Advisor. All crossexamination questions must be approved by Hearing Panel chair prior to
answering.
d. Statement of Respondent’s Witnesses
e. Questions by the Hearing Panel of Respondent’s Witnesses
58
f. Cross-examination of witnesses by Complainant’s Advisor. All cross-

examination questions must be approved by Hearing Panel Chair prior to
answering.
5. Closing
a. Each Party makes closing statements.
i. Complainant
ii. Respondent
b. Final questions, if any, by the Hearing Panel.
c. Final remarks by Hearing Panel concerning process
6. All parties except for Hearing Panel are dismissed.
7. Hearing panel deliberates in private.
8. Hearing Panel informs the Title IX Coordinator of the determination within 3
(three) Business Days and provides rationale as described above for elements
required in the notification to the Parties.
Either Party may appeal the decision within 5 (five) business Days of the decision. The
section below outlines the Appeals Process.
Step Seven: Appeals
Either the Complainant or the Respondent or may appeal the decision of the Hearing
Panel within 5 (five) Business Days of the receipt of the decision. Appeals must be in
writing and based on one of the following grounds for appeal and the grounds for
appeal must be specifically stated in the written appeal.
Grounds for Appeal:
1. New evidence that was not reasonably available at the time of the determination
regarding responsibility or dismissal was made, that could affect the outcome of the
matter;
2. Procedural irregularity that affected the outcome of the matter; or
3. The Title IX Coordinator, investigator(s), or decision-maker(s) had a conflict of
interest or bias for or against the Complainants or the Respondents generally or the
individual Complainant or Respondent that affected the outcome of the matter.
An appeal is not to rehear the case, but to review whether any of the above, if present,
influenced the outcome of the case.
Appeals for cases arising under this Policy will be heard by an Appeals Officer. The Title
IX Coordinator will receive the written materials and appoint an Appeals Officer, either
the Academic Dean or the Chief Financial Officer.
The Appeals Officer will have access to all documents including, but not limited to:
•
•
•
•
•
•

Recordings, both audio and video
Communications, including electronic and non-electronic written documents
Reports
Responses to reports
Addenda
Other documents associated with the case that are not made or maintained by a
physician, psychiatrist, psychologist, or other recognized professional or
paraprofessional acting in the professional’s or paraprofessional’s capacity, or assisting in
that capacity, and which are made and maintained in connection with the provision of
treatment to the Party, unless the College obtains that Party’s voluntary, written consent
If the Appeals Officer determines that a ground for appeal is substantiated, the case will59

be returned to the Title IX Coordinator. Otherwise, the decision of the hearing panel
stands. When a case is returned to the Title IX Coordinator, the Title IX Coordinator
may:
1. Decide to drop the case (e.g., based on insufficient information to believe that a
policy violation may have occurred), or
2. Send the case to the original hearing panel for reconsideration, or
3. Send the case to a new hearing panel with the same or different charges, and/or
(re)implement any aspect of the disciplinary process. When a case is sent back for a
new hearing, it is possible that a different decision (i.e., the decision of responsibility
and/or sanctions) may subsequently result.
<<<SECTION>>>

Sanctions
The following are possible sanctions which may be assigned after a finding of
Responsibility. This list is not exhaustive and may be modified to meet the particular
circumstances of any given case.
1. Expulsion: Permanent severance of the student's relationship with the College.
This severance includes being barred from campus.
2. Disciplinary Suspension: Temporary severance of the student's relationship with the
College for a specified period of time. This may include the student being barred
from campus.
3. Limited Suspension: A student may be denied certain privileges for a specified period
of time. These privileges may include, but are not limited to, class attendance,
housing, parking on campus, participation in extracurricular activities, ID card
privileges, access to institutional facilities, and access to the campus.
4. Disciplinary Probation: Notice to the student that any further, major disciplinary
violation may result in suspension. Disciplinary probation might also include one or
more of the following: the setting of restrictions or the issuing of a reprimand.
5. Reprimand (either oral or written.)
6. Counseling: The committee may require that a Respondent participate in
counseling with the campus counselor for issues including, but not limited to,
anger management, substance abuse, and extenuating personal circumstances. The
Counselor may confirm participation, but not the content of the meetings.
7. Work assignment changed
• Referral to Human Resources or Academic Affairs for employment action.
Record Keeping
Title IX Records will be maintained for 7 (seven) years [See §106.45 (b)(10)] and in
accordance with the College’s Records Retention Policy. Title IX records include:
1. Investigations
2. Determinations
3. Recordings
4. Transcripts
5. Sanctions
6. Remedies
7. Appeals
8. Informal Resolutions
9. Training Materials
60
Policy On Interacting with Minors

Andrew College is committed to the safety and protection of minors. Under Georgia
State Statute, a minor refers to an individual who under 18. The purpose of this section
is to provide for the protection of minors whose health and welfare are adversely
affected and further threatened by the conduct of those responsible for their care and
protection. It is intended that the mandatory reporting of such cases will cause the
protective services of the state to be brought to bear on the situation in an effort to
prevent further abuses, to protect and enhance the welfare of these minors, and to
preserve family life wherever possible.
This policy applies to all faculty, staff, volunteers, and students representing Andrew
College who interact with minors. Andrew College organizes and runs many programs
for pre-college children of various ages, both on and off campus, including recruiting
programs, summer camps, school field trips, daycare, and community service projects.
These general procedures are meant to help guide those involved with Andrew College
pre-college programs in cases where the program does not have its own program
specific procedures in place.
Two Adult Rule – Avoid situations in which you are alone with a minor. When it is
necessary to speak privately with a minor, find a place within sight of others for your
conference. This includes not transporting minors alone in your car.
Privacy – The privacy of minors in situations such as toileting, showering and changing
clothes should be respected. When it is necessary to supervise minors in these situations,
at least two adults should be present and intrude only to the extent that the health and
safety of the minors require. Adults should preserve their own privacy in these situations
as well.
Mentoring – Mentoring programs that involve private instruction (tutoring, laboratory,
music
instruction, etc.) when there is only one adult present must take place in a room or other
space that is in full view from outside the room when the door is closed. A window
opening must exist and allow full view into the room. Minors should never be taken to a
private residence.
Hugging – When hugging is appropriate, hug from the side over the shoulders, not from
the front. Always avoid touching areas that are normally covered by swimming suits
Overnight – When supervising overnight activities, adults should not share sleeping
quarters with minors. Male and female minors should not sleep in the same room.
Constructive Discipline – Discipline used should be constructive, not humiliating or
isolating. Do not use corporal punishment in any form – never spank, slap, hit, etc.
Cameras – While most of us use cameras and other imaging devices responsibly, it is
very easy to invade the privacy of individuals. It is inappropriate to use any device
capable of recording and transmitting visual images in shower areas, restrooms, or other
areas where privacy is expected by participants.
Hazing Prohibited – Hazing initiations are prohibited and may not be included as part of
any activity.
Bullying Prohibited – Verbal, physical, and cyber bullying are prohibited.
61
Report! – You must report incidents involving sexual or physical abuse or neglect of a

minor immediately; please refer to reporting information at the end of the policy.
STATEMENT OF ACKNOWLEDGEMENT OF THE POLICY (INTERACTING
WITH MINORS)
I WILL:
 I promise to strictly follow the rules and guidelines in this policy while
interacting with minors who participate in Andrew College programs.
 I understand that as a person who interacts with minors under the auspices of
Andrew College, I may be required to undergo a criminal history background
check with results acceptable to Andrew College.
 I understand that if I am currently enrolled as a student at the College, I hereby
consent to have my disciplinary case history reviewed with results acceptable to
Andrew College and the program director.
 Unless my paid or volunteer position requires otherwise, I will never to be alone
with a minor (or minors) at College activities without notifying another adult and
asking the adult for assistance.
 If I am alone with a minor, I will utilize buddy systems and pursue safety in
numbers when another adult is not available to help, e.g. a child who needs to be
excused during a group activity will be accompanied by another child of the
same sex.
 I will maintain appropriate physical boundaries at all times. I will touch children
only when necessary in ways that are appropriate, public, and non-sexual.
 I will treat everyone with respect, loyalty, patience, integrity, courtesy and dignity.
 I will use positive reinforcement rather than criticism or comparison when
working with minors.
I WILL NOT:
 I will not touch or speak to a minor (or minors) in a sexual or other
inappropriate manner.
 I will not inflict any physical or emotional abuse such as striking, humiliating,
ridiculing, or
 degrading minors.
 I will not use, possess, or be under the influence of tobacco, alcohol or illegal
drugs at any time while working with minors.
 I will not provide transportation to a minor (or minors) unless doing so is an
acknowledged component of a program.
 I will not accept or give gifts to minors without the knowledge of their parents
or guardians.
 I will not engage in private communications with minors via text messaging,
email, Facebook, Twitter or the like except for activities strictly involving
Andrew College business.
 I will not use profanity in the presence of children and/or youth at any time.
Reporting of Possible Abuse of a Minor:
Please call the Division of Family and Children Services (DFCS) Child Protective Center
at:
 1-855-422-4453. Reports are taken 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
62
If you have an immediate emergency, please call 911 or your local police department.

Also share the details of your report to Andrew College’s Title IX Coordinator at 229732-5946
Sexual abuse of a minor must be reported to United Educators (UE) as referenced in the UE
Notice of Occurrence or claim (Item 12(8) of the UE GLX policy.

To learn more about DFCS, please visit their website below:
http://dfcs.dhs.georgia.gov/child-abuse-neglect.<<<SECTION>>>

Policy On COVID - 19

FAQ- General Questions for COVID-19
Will everyone be required to wear a mask while on campus? Yes. All members of the Andrew College
community are required to wear a mask or face covering that covers the mouth and nose at all times
while on campus with the following exceptions: alone in their private offices and while seated and
eating in the dining hall. In addition to masks, all members of the Andrew College community are
expected to exercise personal health precautions through frequent hand washing, maintaining a distance
of six feet between others, monitoring their own health daily, and seeking medical care if symptoms
warrant.
How will policies on mask and physical distancing be enforced? Will there be consequences for faculty
and staff that do not follow the protocol? Yes. Our plan relies on the full understanding, support, and
cooperation of every member of the Andrew College community. Anyone who is in noncompliance
and disregards the College’s guidelines, thus putting others at risk, will be subject to disciplinary actions
up to and including termination (i.e. Policy and Procedure Manual).
What is the policy on physical distancing while on campus? All members of the Andrew College
community and any authorized contractors or visitors are expected to maintain a distance of 6 feet while
on campus. The college has taken proactive steps to establish conditions, wherever possible, in the
residential, dining, and academic settings, to facilitate maintaining a distance of 6 feet.
If you work in an office, no more than one person should be in the same room unless the required 6
feet of distancing can be consistently maintained. If more than one person is in a room, masks/face
coverings should be worn at all times. A mask or face covering is not required if you are working alone
in a confined office space.
What is the College’s process in the event of a spike in COVID cases? What if our campus becomes a
hot spot? Andrew College will continue to cooperate and coordinate with local health officials tasked
with planning for, and managing the effects of COVID 19. Furthermore, we will comply fully with their
directives and will act accordingly. Measures have been put in place to respond quickly to positive cases
of COVID-19 including testing, isolation/quarantine facilities and procedures.
How will the college handle health screening? To support personal health screening, the college will
send a daily questionnaire to all employees to routinely monitor for COVID-19 symptoms. Based on
the results of each health screening, faculty and staff (and all community members) will be provided
instructions on next steps, which may include testing, isolation and quarantining.
If a faculty, staff, contractor, or visitor tests positive for COVID-19, will they be sent home?
Yes. Anyone who tests positive and anyone deemed to be in close contact with a confirmed case within
the last two weeks of positive testing will be sent home. Testing should be conducted by the appropriate
health-care provider. Testing protocols will be in accordance with health guidelines, and symptomatic
individuals will be tested. Self-monitoring protocols will be instituted with an online questionnaire that
63
faculty, staff, students and visitors must complete.

Can Employers require COVID-19 testing results? Yes. Employers may require testing results to be
provided from the employee to determine if they can return to work.
College Mandatory Masking Policy
Andrew College requires a cloth face covering or disposable mask to be worn by all individuals (faculty,
staff, students, minors and visitors) on campus in the following areas:
a) Indoor public areas on campus, unless marked otherwise. This includes but is not limited to all
non-private offices, common areas of the gym, classroom buildings, classrooms, labs, office
buildings, restrooms, residential spaces such as lobbies, other common spaces in residence halls,
conference rooms, break rooms, library, and the dining hall (except while seated and eating.
b) Outdoor spaces - must wear mask at all times. Outdoor spaces - must wear mask at all times.
Check with the Athletic Department on protocols regarding athletic practices and games.
Exceptions to this policy for disability must be obtained in writing
from the Office of Human Resources at 229-732-5946 or hr@andrewcollege.edu
COVID-19 Daily Questionnaire
Faculty and staff who have been instructed to return to the workplace will be required to fill-out a
questionnaire on a daily basis along with taking their temperature to help determine if they are cleared to
arrive on campus. Your temperature should be below 100.4.

The initial questionnaire (faculty/staff) can be found here:
https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdhxcsGj77AyXkRkN-AWYMlCTp3UucveXBYgT_oTzcifnASQ/viewform?usp=sf_link.

The follow up questionnaire can be found here:
https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSc5NHpnarpiha96Vb1bIpapUtnwtE87NnBuJ_dlsBAq
GexA3g/viewform?usp=sf_link
If you answered yes to any questions on the initial questionnaire, you should:
 Seek appropriate medical attention
 Notify your supervisor
 Not come to campus
If your answers indicate that you ARE experiencing symptoms, you should call your health care
provider and describe your symptoms and/or advise of your contact with someone who’s been
diagnosed. Be sure to indicate if you are:
 65 or older.
 Suffer from a chronic health problem, such as diabetes, heart disease, cancer or lung disease, etc.
 Are a health care or emergency worker who has been interacting with patients who may have
COVID-19.
 Are immunocompromised, such as people with HIV/AIDS and cancer.
 Are pregnant, or had a baby within the last 2 weeks.

(FOLLOW THE PROCEDURES LISTED BELOW FOR LIFE THREATENING
& NON LIFE THREATENING SYMPTOMS)
LIFE THREATENING SYMPTOMS (Severe shortness of breath, respiratory distress, or elevated
temperature, etc.):
1. Call the Emergency Room at 229-209-1363 or 229-209-1233 and notify the hospital staff of the
64 the
employee’s symptoms if you live in the Cuthbert area or while working onsite. If not on site, call
nearest health care facility.

2. Call 911, if emergency transportation by EMS is needed.
3. The employee will be evaluated by the hospital staff and appropriate measures taken for treatment
depending upon conditions. Severe symptoms may require hospital treatment. Your doctor will
determine next steps.
NON-LIFE THREATENING SYMPTOMS:
1. Employee is to contact the nearest Health Care Facility and provide their condition and symptoms of
COVID19.
2. If able, the employee can drive to the nearest Health Care Facility.
3. The employee may be given appropriate prescriptions to be filled by a local drug store and be
required to self-quarantine or isolation. Severe symptoms may require hospital treatment. Your doctor
will determine next steps.
If you are experiencing nonlife threatening symptoms and don’t have a provider and live in Cuthbert,
GA area, call Randolph Medical Associates Clinic (RMA) at 229-209-1371. The college has no contact,
visual thermometers in these work areas: Student Life, Admissions, Academic Affairs, Athletics, and the
Business Office. Faculty and staff that measure a temperature of 100.4 or higher must notify their
supervisor and leave campus. Andrew College reserves the right to impose additional safety measures
and procedures for anyone considered to be at high risk. It is not required for Andrew College
employees to disclose if they are high risk. We recommend when seeking temporary modification of
their work schedule, employees self-disclose being high risk for COVID -19 using Andrew College
Disclosure form. Andrew College will follow the local, state, and CDC guidelines to identify high risk
symptoms.
If your answers indicate that you ARE NOT experiencing symptoms of COVID-19, please follow the
suggested recommendations:
 Continue practicing social distancing; practice good hygiene; wear masks or face coverings in all
public spaces and spaces used by multiple people, and watch for COVID-19 symptoms as
outlined by your local health department, CDC, and Georgia Department of Health (DPH).
Travel: All faculty and staff must follow state, local health department and CDC recommendations and
requirements.
Visitation Policy: Visitation is by appointment only and should be provided with the current written
policy and must comply with all requirements prior to the onsite visit. Campus visitors should wear
masks and observe social distancing, use proper hand-washing practices and follow CDC and COVID19 guidelines for disclosing/reporting symptoms during their time on campus. All visitors should take
their temperature before coming to campus; if anyone in your party has a temperature of 100.4 F or
above you are not allowed on campus. Visitors and minors (anyone under 18 years of age) must be
accompanied by an employee of the college when moving about on campus.
When daycares and / or schools are unavailable, employees will be allowed to occasionally bring a
related minor who is under the age of 18 to campus. Employees will be required to accompany them at
all times including restroom visits with the exception that minors of appropriate age may remain in the
employees’ personal office. Minors will not be allowed to remain in common areas such as the student
lounge, classrooms, gym, library, theatre, etc. The responsible employee will be required to complete a
self-check questionnaire/waiver on all visitors and minors. The documentation is to be presented to the
Office of Human Resources prior to arrival on campus. Documents should be emailed to
hr@andrewcollege.edu. Visitors who violate this privilege will be required to leave the campus
immediately. Andrew College officials reserve the right to restrict and or deny visitation rights of
visitors. All business partners and local businesses in the community should be notified of our response
plans to the COVID-19 pandemic.
65

The initial questionnaire (visitors/minors) can be found here:

https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSdHj9_fERFw0tQJAWtfCU1S2BhrEmR2V3S93e7YQ
OXBTo_hUw/viewform?usp=sf_link
Andrew College will protect the privacy of the data collected by this questionnaire. The Office of Human Resources receives
all questionnaire information and will only release pertinent information to college officials in order to protect the health and
safety of employees, students and guests of Andrew College.
Testing Protocol for all Employees
The level of COVID-19 activity varies by community, as does the availability of testing. For current
updates on COVID-19 and details on testing and other health measures in your state, check with your
local public health agency (Randolph Medical Associates) and visit the CDC website at cdc.gov.
Public Health Department
207 N Webster Street, Cuthbert, Ga 39840
Testing Protocol
The West Central Health District has established a toll-free number for COVID-19 general and /or
testing information. After the recording, callers may leave a message which will be returned within 24
hours.

1-855-962-0955
Individuals who want to be tested must be Georgia residents, but they don’t have to be symptomatic.
Symptoms of COVID-19 include:
Fever or chills
Cough
Shortness of Breath
Headache

Diarrhea
Muscle Pain
Fatigue
Congestion or runny nose

Headache
Sore Throat
New Loss of Taste or Smell
Nausea or vomiting

It’s important for individuals who have mild symptoms to self-quarantine for 14 days. If symptoms worsen, they should call
a health care provider for evaluation. Those without a healthcare provider or without insurance should
contact their local health department for guidance.
Anyone to be tested may complete the patient registration online at
www.westcentralhealthdistrict.com to save time at the test site.

County Health Departments offer drive-thru collection, *weather permitting*:
Chattahoochee
Tuesday, Thursday
10:00 am to 12:00 pm
706-989-3663
Every other Monday
Monday by appt. only
Clay
Wednesday
10:00 am to 12:00 pm
229-768-2355
Crisp- off siteMonday – Friday
9:00 am to 1:00 pm
229-276-2680
J.R Dowdy
Building, 1129 N
5th Street, Cordele
Dooly
Monday – Friday
8:30 am to 12:30 pm
229-268-4725
Harris
Monday – Friday
9:00 am to 11:00 am
706-628-5037
Macon
Monday, Tuesday,
2:00 pm to 4:00 pm
478-472-8121
Wednesday
Marion
Monday – Friday
8:00 am to 12:00 pm
229-649-5664
Quitman
Tuesday
10:00 am to 12:00 pm
229-334-3697 66

Randolph
Schley
Stewart
Sumter
Talbot
Taylor
Webster

Monday, Thursday,
Friday
Monday – Friday
*No testing June29-July
3
Wednesday, Friday
Every other Monday
Tuesday, Thursday
Monday, Wednesday,
Friday
Tuesday, Thursday,
Friday
Thursday, Friday

10:00 am to 12:00 pm

229-732-2414

9:00 am to 11:00 am

229-937-2208

10:00 am to 12:00 pm
Monday by appt. only
9:00 am to 12:00 pm
8:30 am to 11:00 am

229-838-4859

1:30 pm to 3:30 pm

478-862-5628

9:00 am to 11:00 am

229-828-3225

229-924-3637
706-786-6410

If possible, be sure to call before going to a doctor’s office, emergency room, or urgent care
center if you have been exposed to someone with the virus, and have symptoms.
Hygiene
We urge all individuals to practice these prevention measures:
 Remember social distancing: six feet between you and the person closest to you.
 Wear a mask or cloth face covering.
 Wash your hands often with soap and warm water for at least 20 seconds. If soap and water
are not available, use an alcohol-based hand sanitizer.
 Avoid touching your eyes, nose, and mouth with unwashed hands.
 Avoid close contact with people who are sick.
 Stay home when you are sick.
 Cover your cough or sneeze with a tissue, then throw the tissue in the trash.
 Clean and disinfect frequently touched objects and surfaces.
For more information, visit https://www.cdc.gov/coronavirus/2019-nCoV/index.html , or
www.westcentralhealthdistrict.com.

For any questions regarding protocols contact the Office of Human Resources at
hr@andrewcollege.edu or call 229-732-5927 or 229-732-5946.
Isolation/Quarantine
All employees who are symptomatic and awaiting test results, or confirmed to be infected with the virus
that causes COVID-19 are required to physically isolate themselves from others as directed by College
officials, or local and state health officials.
Employees may be asked to provide COVID-19 testing results before returning to campus.
Office Cleaning Plan
Following a routine cleaning and disinfection schedule for the office is the best way to maintain the
health of your colleagues. Daily practices of cleaning high-touch areas and sanitizing surfaces can create
a healthy environment year-round. National will be cleaning office spaces once a day on Monday
through Friday. Take steps to protect yourself and others by wiping down commonly used surfaces
daily (copiers, printers, light switches, door knobs, and foyer) with products that meet the criteria for
use against COVID-19 and are appropriate for the following types of surfaces:
67
Office area

• Tables and desks
• Countertops
• Chair-backs
• Doorknobs
• Light switches
• Cabinet pulls and handles
• Phones, computer mice, and keyboards, computers
• Desk accessories such as staplers, tape dispensers, pens and pen-cups
• Coat-racks and hangers
Kitchen
• Appliance handles and controls (fridge, microwave)
• Fixtures (faucet, sink)
• Table and Chair-backs at seating areas
• Coffee station and coffee/tea service items
Also eliminate reusable kitchen items (flatware, dishes, cups, sponges, brushes, and towels) and replace
with single use items.
Restrooms (disinfect after each use)
• Bathroom fixtures (toilet handles, faucets, soap and towel dispensers)
• Waste-bins
• Door handles
Handwashing afterwards reduces the potential transmission of the virus.
Promoting good office hygiene
Here are several ways you can encourage your staff to keep up these healthy habits once things start to
settle into the new normal:
1. Place wipes, sanitizer, paper towels, and waste bins (for easy disposal) at strategic spots in high-traffic
areas.
2. Get everyone into the habit of pitching in – proactively wiping down surfaces they use (even when
they’re healthy).
Meetings
Where feasible, meetings should be held in whole or part using the available collaboration tools (e.g.
Zoom, Microsoft Teams, Google – GoToMeeting, telephone, etc.)
Elevators
Elevator occupancy limits will be posted at each elevator.
Staircases
Maintain social distance going up or down.
Working Remotely
The Business Office is committed to supporting the mission of Andrew College. While working
remotely, it is the employees’ responsibility to effectively communicate with your supervisor and/or HR
department.
Support Services
Aspire Counseling
Overview:
The experience of isolation may be challenging both psychologically and emotionally. Employees in a
state of isolation may experience a range of thoughts, emotions, and reactions. Aspire provides
Individual Counseling and Therapy as well as Peer Support. Aspire is focused on leading the community
in hope and recovery. Aspire is good for anyone that wants to seek hope, healing, and recovery with any
of their experiences or if you just need someone with a listening ear. For more information, please
contact the Dean of Student Affairs at jamesmccoy@andrewcollege.edu or (229) 732-5950. 68

Health and Medical Care
Well Tree On-Call provides limited medical service to Andrew College employees. Employees may
consult with a physician or PA, free of charge, 7 days a week, 24 hours a day through Telemedicine,
Health Advocate and Doctors Online. Employees who wish to participate in the health program may
enroll at any time. Depending on the care needed, physicians may provide a prescription or refer the
employee to their primary physician.
 Should an employee need to receive medical treatment, there are doctors’ offices and an
emergency room within walking distance of campus; however, the employee may receive
treatment where he or she chooses.
 Andrew College is NOT responsible for any medical expenses occurred while at the College.

For any questions regarding protocols contact the Office of Human Resources at
hr@andrewcollege.edu or 229-732-5946.

69

Section 5.0

Employment Policies
Policies set forth in this document are not intended to create a contract, nor are they to
be construed to constitute contractual obligations of any kind or a contract of employment
between Andrew College and any of its staff or faculty members. The provisions of the
handbook have been developed at the discretion of the administration and may be amended or
cancelled at any time, at Andrew College's sole discretion.<<<SECTION>>>

Philosophy/Expectations of Employment at Andrew College:
Pervasive in the Mission, Philosophy, and Vision Statements is the College’s
intent to provide instruction, environment, and example reflective of academic
excellence, personal integrity, individual responsibility, community service, and Christian
values. This cannot be accomplished unless these attributes are adopted and exhibited by
Andrew College employees as each of us go about our daily tasks. Mr. William B. Turner
in his book entitled A Learning of Love: A Journey toward Servant Leadership, summarized this
well when he said: “Listening, hearing, understanding, healing, building community, and discovering
meaning will cause people to change and grow, which is the goal of a servant leader.”
Each employee should view his/her role at Andrew College as extending beyond
the performance of task(s) listed in a job description or employment agreement, and to
encompass a caring, nurturing and helpful persona that students and colleagues can
respect and emulate.
<<<SECTION>>>

Nature of Employment:<<<SECTION>>>

Faculty:
Appointed faculty members have certain rights and conditions of
employment which are described within this Manual in Section 10.6 – Faculty
Personnel Policies. In all other regards, the provisions of these policies supersede all
existing policies and practices and may not be amended or added to, either orally
or in writing, without the approval of the President of Andrew College.
<<<SECTION>>>

Staff:
Employment as a staff member with Andrew College is voluntarily
entered into, and the employee is free to resign at-will at any time under the terms
of any employment agreement (if any), with or without cause. Similarly, Andrew
College may terminate the employment relationship at-will at any time, with or
without notice or cause, so long as there is no violation of applicable federal or
state law.
<<<SECTION>>>

Attendance and Punctuality:
To maintain a safe and productive work environment, Andrew College expects
staff members to be reliable and to be punctual in reporting for scheduled work.
Absenteeism and tardiness place a burden on students, other staff members and Andrew
College. In the rare instances when staff members cannot avoid being late to work or are
unable to work as scheduled, they should notify their supervisor as soon as possible in
advance of the anticipated tardiness or absence.
Poor attendance and excessive tardiness are disruptive. Either may lead to
disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment.
70
<<<SECTION>>>

Conflict of Interest:
Employees of Andrew College have an obligation to conduct business within
guidelines that prohibit actual, potential or the appearance of conflicts of interest. The
purpose of these guidelines is to provide general direction so that employees or trustees
can seek further clarification on issues related to the subject of acceptable standards of
conduct. Employees should contact the President of the College or the Vice President
for Finance to seek clarification or ask questions about potential conflicts of interest.
Transactions with outside vendors must be conducted in a manner that avoids
actual conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest and are subject to
review by the executive level of Andrew College. Business dealings with outside firms
should not result in unusual gains for those firms. Unusual gain refers to windfalls
designed to ultimately benefit the vendor, the employee, or both. Circumstances that
could be interpreted to involve unusual gain require specific executive level approval. An
actual or potential conflict of interest occurs when an employee is in a position to
influence a decision that may result in a personal gain for that member or for a relative as
a result of Andrew College's business dealings. For the purposes of this policy, a relative
is any person who is related by blood or marriage, or whose relationship with the member
is similar to that of persons who are related by blood or marriage. No "presumption of
guilt" is created by the mere existence of a relationship with outside firms. However, if
an employee has any influence on transactions involving purchases, contracts, or leases, it
is imperative that he or she disclose to the President or Vice President for Finance as
soon as possible the existence of any actual or potential conflict of interest. When this
communication occurs, a formal review will be conducted. In the case of trustees,
disclosure should be made to the Chairman of the Board of Trustees. Personal gain may
result not only in cases where an employee, trustee or relative has a significant ownership
in a firm with which Andrew College does business, but also when an employee, trustee
or relative receives any special consideration as a result of any transaction or business
dealings involving Andrew College.
Although this is not an all-inclusive list, the following situations are prohibited:
 Use of the College facilities for private research or consulting service for
which the employee or trustee is compensated by a third party
 Making use of the College’s assets (including the College’s name or trademarks)
outside the scope of his or her employment
 Conditioning any actual or potential business relationship with the College or
admission decision on a charitable gift or contribution to the College
 Soliciting or accepting a personal gift or gratuity as a quid pro quo for a
purchase by or contract with the College, or for a favorable admission or
financial aid decision
<<<SECTION>>>

Corrective Actions:
Corrective actions include written and verbal warnings, reprimands, and censures
that are primarily intended to correct and improve a person's job performance and
attitudes. Corrective actions do not adversely affect the faculty or staff member's current
pay, status, or tenure; however, such actions can be administered concurrently with
disciplinary actions that do have a negative effect on the person's current pay, status, or
tenure. Corrective actions, which are written warnings, must indicate to the faculty or
staff member the nature of the concern, corrective actions the person should take, and
71 The
consequences the person will face if he/she fails to follow the plan for correction.

supervisor will maintain a copy of the written corrective action plan in his/her file and
submit the original signed copy to the Director of Human Resources. The Director of
Human Resources will place the document in the employee’s personnel file. The
employee should sign the corrective action plan after he/she has reviewed it with his/her
supervisor.<<<SECTION>>>

Drug and Alcohol Use:
It is Andrew College's desire to provide a drug-free, healthful, and safe workplace.
To promote this goal, employees are required to report to work in appropriate mental
and physical condition to perform their jobs in a satisfactory manner. Each employee, as
a condition of employment, must acknowledge these expectations by signing the DrugFree Workplace Certification Form.
While on Andrew College premises or while conducting business related activities
off the Andrew College campus, no employee may be under the influence of alcohol.
They also may not use, possess, distribute, sell, or be under the influence of illegal drugs.
The legal use of prescribed drugs is permitted on the job only if it does not impair an
employee's ability to perform the essential functions of their job. They must perform
effectively and in a safe manner and not endanger other individuals in the workplace.
Violations of this policy may lead to disciplinary action, up to and including
immediate termination of employment, and/or required participation in a substance
abuse rehabilitation or treatment program. Such violations may also have legal
consequences.
To inform employees about important provisions of this policy, Andrew College
has established a drug-free awareness program. The program provides information on
the dangers and effects of substance abuse in the workplace, resources available to
employees, and consequences for violations of this policy.
Employees with questions or concerns about substance dependency or abuse are
encouraged to discuss these matters with their department head, the College Chaplain, or
the Vice President for Finance to receive assistance or referrals to appropriate resources
in the community.
Employees with drug or alcohol problems that have not resulted in, and are not
the immediate subject of, disciplinary action may request approval to take unpaid time off
to participate in a rehabilitation or treatment program. Leave may be granted if the
faculty or staff member agrees to abstain from use of the problem substance, abides by all
Andrew College policies, rules, and prohibitions relating to conduct in the workplace; and
with the granting of the leave, not cause Andrew College any undue hardship.
Under the Drug-Free Workplace Act, an employee must notify Andrew College
of a criminal conviction for drug-related activity occurring in the workplace. The report
must be made within five days of the conviction to Vice President for Finance.
Employees with questions on this policy or issues related to drug or alcohol use in
the workplace should raise their concerns with their department head or the Vice
President for Finance without fear of reprisal.
72

Notification of Civil Sanctions for Possession of Illicit Drugs:
The penalty for possession of any illicit drug begins with a misdemeanor offense
(less than one ounce of marijuana), which is punishable by imprisonment for a period not
to exceed 12 months or a fine not to exceed $1000 or both and possible loss of driver's
license. Where more than one ounce of marijuana or other illicit drugs are involved, the
offense becomes a felony which carries a severe penalty that may include imprisonment
of up to 30 years as well as other federal law stipulations.
Risks Associated with the Use of Illicit Drugs and Abuse of Alcohol:
Alcohol consumption causes a number of marked changes in behavior. Even low
doses significantly impair the judgment and coordination required to drive a car safely,
increasing the likelihood that the driver will be involved in an accident. Use of alcohol
may increase the incidence of a variety of aggressive acts, including murder, rape, armed
robbery, vandalism, spouse and child abuse and drunk driving. High doses of alcohol
often cause marked impairment in higher mental function, severely altering a person's
ability to learn and remember information and make judgments. Heavy use may cause
chronic depression and suicide and is also greatly associated with the abuse of other
drugs. Very high doses cause respiratory depression and death. If combined with other
depressants that affect the central nervous system, death may result. The use of even
small amounts of alcohol by pregnant women can damage their fetus. Long-term heavy
alcohol use can cause digestive disorders, cirrhosis of the liver, circulatory system
disorders, and impairment of the central nervous system, all of which may lead to early
death. Repeated use of alcohol can lead to dependence, particularly in persons with one
or more parents or grandparents who were problem drinkers. At least 15-20% of heavy
users will eventually become problem drinkers or alcoholics if they continue drinking.
Sudden cessation of alcohol intake by alcoholics is likely to produce withdrawal
symptoms, including severe anxiety, tremors, hallucinations and convulsions, which can
be life threatening.
Illicit drugs all have some health-threatening qualities but some have more than
others. Examples are lung damage from marijuana, central nervous system disorders for
cocaine, heroin, and hallucinogens, and liver damage from inhalants. Dependence and
addiction are constant threats to users. AIDS is widely spread among intravenous drug
users. Regular abuse of these substances generally exposes users to criminal elements
who may influence users to become involved in criminal activities in addition to their
already illegal drug use.
Information on Alcohol and Drug Assistance:
Employees can obtain additional information on alcohol and/or drug
treatment from these off-campus resources which include, but are not limited to, the
following:
Pastoral Counseling Center of Albany
1-229-446-1222
AL-ANON for Families of Alcoholics
1-800-344-2666
Crossroads Substance Abuse Programs
1-229-888-4021
Greenleaf Center
1-800-247-2747
Help-Line Georgia
1-800-338-6745

73

College officials are aware of the need for special attention in dealing with an
alcohol problem and are willing to assist whenever possible. However, the disruptions
often associated with alcohol use and abuse will not be tolerated in an educational
community environment.<<<SECTION>>>

Employee Conduct and Work Rules:
To ensure orderly operations and provide the best possible work environment,
Andrew College expects faculty and staff members to follow rules of conduct that will
protect the interests and safety of all in the College community.
It is not possible to list all the forms of behavior that are considered unacceptable
in the workplace. The following are examples of infractions of rules of conduct that may
result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment:
 Theft or inappropriate removal or possession of property
 Working under the influence of alcohol or illegal drugs
 Possession, distribution, sale, transfer, or use of alcohol or illegal drugs in the
workplace, while on duty, or while operating employer-owned vehicles or
equipment
 Fighting or threatening violence in the workplace
 Insubordination or other disrespectful conduct
 Violation of safety or health rules
 Sexual or other unlawful or unwelcome harassment
 Possession of dangerous or unauthorized materials such as explosive or firearms
in the workplace
 Negligence, misconduct, failure to perform duties assigned, maintain work quality
and/or productivity
 Falsification of institutional documents or records
 Tardiness, leaving work early or temporary unauthorized absence from work
 Absenteeism or misuse of sick leave
 Behavior which interferes with the work performance of other employees and/or
disrupts teaching or other activities
 Excessive or disruptive visits of family, guests or pets in the workplace
 Failure to report an injury occurring on the premises of the College concerning an
employee, student or guest
<<<SECTION>>>

Employment Categories:
This section will clarify the definitions of employment classifications so that
members understand their employment status and benefit eligibility.<<<SECTION>>>

Staff - (Non-Faculty):
Each staff - (non-faculty) member is designated as either NON-EXEMPT
or EXEMPT from the Federal Fair Labor Standards Act and state wage and hour
laws. NON-EXEMPT staff members are entitled to overtime pay under the
specific provisions of federal and state laws. EXEMPT staff members are
excluded from specific provisions of federal and state wage and hour laws.
In addition to the above categories, each non-faculty staff member will
belong to one other employment category:
74



Regular Full-Time: staff members are regularly scheduled to work
Andrew College's full-time schedule and work throughout the calendar
year. Generally, they are eligible for Andrew College's benefit package,
subject to the terms, conditions, and limitations of each benefit
program.



Full Time Staff on an Academic Calendar: are regularly scheduled to
work Andrew College’s full-time schedule and do not work or have a
reduced work schedule when the College’s academic programs are not in
session. The exact work schedule during the periods when the College’s
academic programs are not in session will be determined by the
employee’s supervisor. Generally, they are eligible for Andrew College's
benefit package, subject to the terms, conditions, and limitations of each
benefit program.



Part-Time: staff members are those:
o who are regularly scheduled to work less than 35 hours per week,
or
o who work on a non-regular schedule and less than the full-time
work schedule, or
o who work a full-time schedule on an intermittent or temporary
basis
While part-time staff do receive all legally mandated benefits (such
as social security and workers' compensation insurance), they are ineligible
for a number of Andrew College's other benefit programs.


<<<SECTION>>>

Student: employees, either hired by the College or working under the
work-study program, receive all legally-mandated benefits (such as
workers' compensation insurance); they are ineligible for all of Andrew
College's other benefit programs. It is the policy of Andrew College to
employ only students who meet the requirements of the Employment
Eligibility Verification (I-9) form issued by The Department of
Homeland Security’s U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services.

Faculty:
Faculty members are employees of the College who are appointed to their
positions on an annual or term basis. Special provisions related to faculty
employment are contained in the Faculty Handbook. Tenure of faculty is
discussed in the Faculty Handbook.


Full-Time Faculty: are those persons having faculty status whose
primary assignment is to teach a minimum of 15 credit hours each term
for an academic year; or whose primary responsibility is to teach less than
15 credit hours each term but have significant additional administrative,
recruiting or other instructional duties.



Part-Time Faculty: is a classification utilized for reporting purposes
75 be the
only and not used for employment classification. Examples would
Athletic Director or Chaplain who regularly teach one or two courses but

whose primary responsibility is other than instruction. These individuals
would not have a faculty contract.


Adjunct Faculty: are those persons receiving an appointment of faculty
status not exceeding one term.
<<<SECTION>>>

Exit Interview:
A two stage exit interview will be held with all staff/faculty members who
terminate for any reason. The immediate supervisor/department head of the person
leaving the College will conduct the initial stage which will include:
 Return of all College owned property (computers, keys, etc.) by the staff/faculty
member. A fee is subject to be withheld from the employee’s last pay check if
College property is not returned.
 Explain the need to meet with the Director of Human Resources for an
explanation of benefits. The Termination of Employment form should be
completed and signed by the Department Head. The completed form along with
the resignation letter or any other correspondence should be taken to the
Director of Human Resources. An explanation of benefit continuance and/or
payroll procedures will be given to the departing employee by the Director of
Human Resources, who will then complete the DOL Form 800. The completed
DOL Form 800 will be given to the employee. In addition, a full time employee
that has resigned will be asked questions about the reasons they left Andrew and
items of concern about the College.
<<<SECTION>>>

Gifts and Gratuities:
In order to avoid a conflict of interest or the appearance of a conflict of interest,
at no time should an employee of the College neither solicit nor accept anything of value
in return for influencing or exercising his/her discretion in a particular way on a College
matter. Gifts valued at $50.00 or more cannot be accepted by College employees, and
should be returned immediately to the donor. If the value of the gift is undetermined it
should be returned. This provision does not prohibit the acceptance of an item having a
nominal value (under $50) or ceremonial gifts received by Officers of the College in their
official capacity. Ordinary business courtesies, such as payment for a lunch or dinner, are
acceptable. Gifts which are promotional items without significant value, and which are
distributed routinely by vendors to clients, are also acceptable except when in conflict
with accepted practices or federal/state guidelines.
Gratuities or gifts of money to an employee cannot be accepted at any time and
should be returned immediately to the donor.
<<<SECTION>>>

Outside Employment:
A staff member, with the permission of their immediate supervisor, may hold a
job with another organization as long as he or she satisfactorily performs his or her job
responsibilities with Andrew College. All staff members will be judged by the same
performance standards and will be subject to Andrew College's scheduling demands,
regardless of any existing outside work requirements. A faculty member must receive
approval from the Dean of Academic Affairs before accepting simultaneous employment
elsewhere. In all cases, the written approval by the employee’s supervisor will be
maintained in the employee’s personnel file.
76
If Andrew College determines that an employee's outside work interferes with

performance or the ability to meet the requirements of Andrew College as they are
modified from time to time, the staff member may be asked to terminate the outside
employment if he or she wishes to remain with Andrew College.
Outside employment will present a conflict of interest if it has an adverse impact
on Andrew College. Outside employment may not be of a type that would reasonably
give rise to criticism of the College, its mission or role; or would be in conflict with its
roots and principals as a church-related institution.
Any employment situation which results in an individual (faculty or staff member)
simultaneously being employed in more than one position at the College will be reviewed
and approved by the President’s Cabinet. Such a situation may result in part-time, fulltime, or more than full-time employment for the individual in question. Situations, which
result in more than full-time employment, will be carefully scrutinized for compliance
with the Fair Labor Standards Act and will usually not be approved. All approvals by the
cabinet will be in writing and a copy kept in the individual’s personnel file.<<<SECTION>>>

Reference Checks:<<<SECTION>>> Pre-Employment:
To ensure that individuals who join Andrew College are well qualified and
have a strong potential to be productive and successful, it is the policy of Andrew
College to check the employment and personal references of all applicants.
Certain positions at the College require more in depth background checks
which may include credit check, criminal background check, and education
verification. These checks may be conducted at the discretion of the hiring
department head. Permission from the prospective employee will be obtained in
writing in advance of the background checks. If any one candidate for a
particular position is required to submit to a background investigation, then all
candidates for that position must be required to undergo a background check. If
a candidate is currently employed by the College and has previously undergone
the appropriate background check, the requirement for a subsequent investigation
may be waived. It is acceptable to narrow the candidate field to a few finalists
before requiring background checks. The Director of Human Resources will
arrange for all background checks once the Release Authorization form is
received. Prospective employees who refuse to consent to background checks will
not be offered employment at Andrew College. The Director of Human
Resources will retain control of the information obtained from the background
checks. Original documents will be retained in confidential personnel files for all
individuals who are hired by the College. Background information obtained for
those not hired will be destroyed after the hiring process is completed.<<<SECTION>>> Post-Employment:
Andrew College will respond in writing only to those reference check
inquiries that are submitted in writing. Responses to such inquiries will confirm
only dates of employment, compensation, and position(s) held. No employment
data will be released without a written authorization and release signed by the
individual who is the subject of the inquiry.
77
<<<SECTION>>>

Relationships in the Workplace:
The College's educational mission is promoted by professionalism in studentfaculty-staff relationships and in supervisor-supervisee relationships. Professionalism is
fostered by an atmosphere of mutual trust and respect. Taking note of the respect and
trust accorded a faculty or staff member by a student, minor and a supervisor by a
supervisee, an employee of the College should recognize that they are presumed to make
decisions regarding their relationships with students, minors and supervisees which will
not endanger this atmosphere of mutual trust and respect. Faculty and staff should be
aware of the possibility that an apparent consensual relationship with a student, minor or
supervisee may be interpreted (either now or at a later date) as non-consensual and,
therefore, sexual harassment.
The power differential inherent in faculty-student/minor or staff- student/minor
and supervisor- supervisee relationships may compromise the student's, minor’s or
supervisee's ability to decide and thus call into question the bona fide consensual nature
of the relationship. The potential exists for the student, minor or supervisee to perceive a
coercive element in suggestions regarding activities outside those appropriate to
professional relationships. Moreover, faculty and staff, particularly in relationships with
students, minors and persons under their supervision, need to be aware of potential
conflicts of interest and the possible compromise of their evaluative capacity. They also
need to be aware that a relationship may give rise to a perception on the part of others
that the evaluative capacity of the faculty or staff member has been compromised.
It is a violation of this policy for a College employee to undertake an amorous
relationship or permit one to develop with a student or supervisee who is enrolled in the
person's class or is subject to that person's supervision or evaluation, even when both
parties appear to have consented to the relationship. Amorous relationships between
faculty or staff members and students outside the instructional and supervisory context
are strictly prohibited.
A complaint alleging violations of the policy regarding consensual relationships
should be made to the President of the College or any President’s Cabinet member.
These relationships could result in the dismissal of the employee in a student-employee
relationship or the dismissal of one or both employees in a supervisor-supervisee
relationship.
<<<SECTION>>>

Required Documents:
It is the policy of Andrew College to employ individuals who are authorized for
unrestricted employment in the United States indefinitely with no immigration
sponsorship needed and whom meet the requirements of the Employment Eligibility
Verification (I-9) form issued by The Department of Homeland Security’s U.S.
Citizenship and Immigration Services.
In compliance with the Immigration Reform and Control Act of 1986, each new
employee must complete the Employment Eligibility Verification Form I-9 and present
documentation establishing identity and employment eligibility within three days of their
hire date. Employees who fail to supply the required documentation within three days
will be discharged. A College paycheck will not be issued until the verification has been
completed. The I-9 Form is available in the Director of Human Resources’ office.
78

In addition to the I-9 required documents, employees must supply their social
security number, complete IRS form W-4, Georgia form G-4, Direct Deposit
Authorization, Conflict of Interest, Personnel Information Update and sign an
acknowledgement of Andrew College’s Drug Free Workplace Policy and the Andrew
College Policy Manual receipt form. Employees with higher education credentials are
required to provide official transcripts of their higher education academic work to the
Director of Human Resources’ office before their employment start date. Faculty must
provide an official copy to the Dean of Academic Affairs’ office and a photocopy to
the Director of Human Resources’ Office. Any employee hired for a position calling
for a certain license(s), must provide evidence of that license before their employment
start date. All Direct Deposit documentation received via email will be validated prior
to any financial changes that are to be made.<<<SECTION>>>

Resignations:
Resignation is a voluntary act initiated by the staff member to terminate
employment with Andrew College. Andrew College requests at least two week’s written
notice of resignation from non-exempt staff members and four weeks’ notice from
exempt staff members.
Prior to an employee's departure, an exit interview will be scheduled with the
Director of Human Resources to review the effect of the resignation on benefits and
possible conversion options. The exit interview is considered a requirement of the staff
member (See Section 5.9).
A decision not to renew a faculty contract may be made by either the College or
by the faculty member. A faculty member should give written notification of intent to
separate from the College to the Dean of Academic Affairs at least 60 days prior to the
end of the current contract period. The faculty member may properly request a waiver of
this requirement of notice in the case of hardship or in a situation where the faculty
member would otherwise be denied substantial professional advancement of other
opportunity.
Prior to the faculty member’s departure, separate exit interviews will be scheduled
with the Dean of Academic Affairs, the faculty member’s division coordinator and the
Director of Human Resources. If the resigning faculty member is a division coordinator,
the exit interview will take place with the Dean of Academic Affairs and Registrar.
<<<SECTION>>>

Grievance – Staff - (Non-Faculty):
Staff grievances are usually based upon work-related issues. The staff member
should talk with his/her supervisor to attempt to resolve the issue(s). If this is not
successful, the following procedure will be initiated:<<<SECTION>>> A written statement outlining the specific grievance(s) and the attempts to resolve
the issue(s) should be submitted to the Vice President for Finance. If the grievance is
against the Vice President for Finance, the statement should be submitted to the Dean of
Academic Affairs who will conduct the established process. The statement should
contain the basis for the grievance in as much detail as possible.<<<SECTION>>> The Vice President for Finance will notify the President that a grievance has been
filed. The Vice President for Finance will notify the person against whom the
79 to the
grievance has been filed, request all documentation that he/she may have related
issue(s) in question, and re-affirm to that person that no administrative or retaliatory

action is to be taken because of the filing of a grievance. If the issue under question is
related to life/safety, task assignments related to the grievance will be discontinued
immediately until the grievance process is concluded.
<<<SECTION>>> The Vice President for Finance will conduct initial interviews with the staff
member filing the grievance and the person against whom the grievance is filed.
If reconciliation of the dispute is not possible, the Vice President for Finance will
request any additional documentation that the participants may wish to submit
and a list of any witnesses from each participant. The Vice President for Finance
will then submit all documentation and notes to the President.
<<<SECTION>>> The President will appoint a Grievance Committee, chaired by the Academic
Dean and consisting of not less than four full-time staff members, to hear the grievance.
The documentation and notes will be provided to the committee.<<<SECTION>>> The Grievance Committee will convene to hear the grievance at a time and place
communicated to the participants, in writing, at least 24 hours in advance. The
committee may call witnesses.<<<SECTION>>> Upon the conclusion of the hearing(s) the Grievance Committee will issue a
decision on the grievance, which may include recommendations.<<<SECTION>>> The decision may be appealed to the President, in writing, within 48 hours by
either participant. The appeal should state the specific reason(s) for the appeal. The
President's decision is final.<<<SECTION>>>

Grievance – Faculty:
Faculty grievances are usually based upon issues pertaining to co-workers,
instruction methodology, and the academic program. The faculty member should talk
with his/her division coordinator to attempt to resolve the issue(s). If the division
coordinator is directly involved, the faculty member should talk with the Dean of
Academic Affairs. If the Dean of Academic Affairs is directly involved, the faculty
member should talk with the Vice President for Finance. If the aforementioned steps are
taken and fail to resolve the issue(s), the following procedure will be initiated:<<<SECTION>>> A written statement outlining the specific grievance(s) and the attempts to resolve
the issue(s) should be submitted to the Dean of Academic Affairs. If the grievance is
against the Dean of Academic Affairs, the statement should be submitted to the Vice
President for Finance who will conduct the established process. The statement should
contain the basis for the grievance in as much detail as possible.<<<SECTION>>> The Dean of Academic Affairs will notify the President that a grievance has been
filed. The Dean of Academic Affairs will notify the faculty member against whom the
grievance has been filed, request all documentation that he/she may have related to the
issue(s) in question, and reaffirm to that person that no administrative or retaliatory
action is to be taken because of the filing of a grievance. If the issue under question is
related to life/safety, task assignments related to the grievance will be discontinued
immediately and until the grievance process is concluded.<<<SECTION>>> The Dean of Academic Affairs will conduct initial interviews with the faculty
member filing the grievance and the person against whom the grievance is filed.80If
reconciliation of the dispute is not possible, the Dean of Academic Affairs will request

any additional documentation that the participants may wish to submit and a list of any
witnesses from each participant. The Dean of Academic Affairs will then submit all
documentation and notes to the President.<<<SECTION>>> The President will appoint a Grievance Committee, chaired by the Academic
Dean and consisting of no less than three faculty members with no more than one from
the same division and two full-time staff members, to hear the grievance. The
documentation and notes will be provided to the committee.<<<SECTION>>> The Grievance Committee will convene to hear the grievance at a time and place
communicated to the participants, in writing, at least 24 hours in advance. The
committee may call witnesses.<<<SECTION>>> Upon the conclusion of the hearing(s) the Grievance Committee will issue a
decision on the grievance, which may include recommendations.<<<SECTION>>> The decision may be appealed to the President, in writing, within 48 hours by
either participant. The appeal should state the specific reason(s) for the appeal. The
President's decision is final.<<<SECTION>>>

Work Schedules:
The normal administration and support office schedule is seven hours a day (8:30
am - Noon, 1:00 pm - 4:30 pm), Monday through Friday. Staffing needs and operational
demands may necessitate variations in starting and ending times, staggered lunch periods,
as well as variations in the total hours that may be scheduled each day and week. Special
events such as the opening of school, convocation, homecoming, graduation, visitation,
and orientation, may require that operations and tasks be continued into Saturday and/or
Sunday.
<<<SECTION>>>

Employment Procedures:
Andrew College desires to fill all vacancies with the best qualified persons
Available and retain them through a process of evaluation. All non-tenured employees
are employed at will.
Andrew College recruitment and selection procedures are intended to serve as a
general guide. The procedures may be modified with the approval of the President.
Internal applicants are welcome to apply for open positions at the College, the
best qualified candidate will be considered. Employees who apply for a vacant position in
another department must inform their immediate supervisor upon notification of being
selected for an interview. This early notification allows the supervisor to adequately
prepare for the possible transition. While supervisors are expected to support career
growth and change, they may negotiate the timing and condition for the employee’s
transfer. Upon reaching an agreement between the two departments, the hiring
department will submit a completed Employee Authorization Form for approval to the
President for final approval.

81
<<<SECTION>>> Full-time Positions:<<<SECTION>>> Recruitment:
Recruitment for all positions (new or replacement) begins with
approval from the President. A summary of the position, required
qualifications, and duties and responsibilities is provided by the Cabinet
Officer seeking to fill the position. Each Cabinet Officer should seek a
diverse pool of applicants. All positions may be posted, and all postings
will indicate the office to receive applications. All applications will be
recorded and complete application packets will be submitted to the
Selection Committee.<<<SECTION>>> Selection:
A Selection Committee and its Chair shall be appointed by the
appropriate Cabinet Officer. The Selection Committee will review all
applications and select finalist to be interviewed.
1.

Interview
When a large applicant pool is being considered for interviews,
initial screenings such as a telephone or videoconference interview
is encouraged to reduce costs and number of personal interviews.
When the top finalists are selected from these initial screenings,
then in-person interviews may be scheduled. Travel
reimbursement for interviews will be determined by the President
in consultation with the Cabinet Officer. In order to assess
applicants for positions, the interview process may include, but is
not limited to a:
 Formal interview with the Selection Committee
 Mini-lecture or teaching demonstration
 Skills test or writing sample
 Private interview with the appropriate Cabinet Officer
and/or President

2.

Offering the Position
Prior to making an offer of the position, the Director of
Human Resources will conduct a background check. An
Employment Authorization Form will be used to recommend the
finalist to the President. When approved, the offer of
employment can be made.

3.

Closing the Process
For non-faculty positions, the Director of Human Resources
will provide a Letter of Appointment to the finalist after salary and
start date have been confirmed. When signed by the finalists, the
letter serves as acceptance of the position and initiates
orientation of the new employee. All other applicants will be
notified that the position has been filled.
82

For faculty positions a written contract that includes salary,
start date, and position title will be provided to the selected
candidate. The candidate will sign and return the offer letter to
the Dean of Academic Affairs signifying acceptance of the offer
and will request official transcripts be sent directly from all
institutions of higher education to the Office of Academic Affairs.
All other candidates will be notified that the position has been
filled.<<<SECTION>>>

Adjunct Faculty Selection:
The Selection Committee should check the employment and personal
references of finalist. Adjunct instructors hired to teach courses must possess the
same educational credentials that are required for regular faculty in the respective
teaching fields.
Applicants will be screened and selected by the Division Coordinator and
the Dean of Academic Affairs. A writing sample and/or teaching demonstration
may be required prior to hiring the adjunct faculty member. The topic for the
writing sample will be assigned on site.
All required information, including the application materials, official
transcripts must be submitted to the Office of Academic Affairs. The adjunct will
sign an Adjunct Contract that will include the course number and name, salary, and
basic job duties. The Dean of Academic Affairs will coordinate all employment
eligibility and payroll paperwork with the Director of Human Resources’ office.
<<<SECTION>>>

References and Employment Verifications:
Information related to employees and former employees is confidential.
All requests for information about present or former employees should be
forwarded to the Director of Human Resources’ office. Only the employee’s or
former employee’s dates of employment and job title(s) should be provided. Any
other information will be provided only with the former employee’s
authorization.

83

Section 6.0

Information Technology Policies<<<SECTION>>>

Acceptable Use Policy:
Andrew College makes available computer, telephone, and other communication
resources to support the academic research, instructional, administrative, and student
service activities of the institution. The resources are intended for the sole use of Andrew
College faculty, staff, students and other authorized users. These resources include, but
are not necessarily limited to, host computer systems, personal computers and
workstations, telephone/communications networks, software, and computer files. These
policies apply to all Andrew College faculty, staff, students, and other authorized users.<<<SECTION>>> Personal identifiable information may not be downloaded from College servers to
standalone desktop, laptop computers, flash drives or other portable storage devices.
When such information is required for analysis or reporting it should be downloaded to a
directory on the College server and deleted when no longer needed.<<<SECTION>>> Use of Andrew College informational/communications system resources must be
consistent with the College’s conduct policies as well as state and federal laws.<<<SECTION>>> Connection of personally owned computers/devices to an Andrew College
system makes them subject to established usage policies.<<<SECTION>>> In order to protect the integrity of its informational/communications systems
Andrew College reserves the right to gain access to all information utilizing the system(s).
Access to non-public information (i.e. email and voice mail) is limited to designated
administrators and only within established guidelines.<<<SECTION>>> Access/addresses/accounts/passwords granted to individuals are intended for the
sole use of that individual, and are non-transferable.<<<SECTION>>> The owner is responsible for all usage on their assigned
access/address/account/password.<<<SECTION>>> Andrew College expressly disclaims any liability or responsibility arising from
access to or use of information obtained through electronic information systems; and
encompassing any activities by a user found to be illegal, or any consequences thereof.<<<SECTION>>> The right to use the Andrew College informational/communications systems can
be revoked if misused or abused, even if unintentionally.<<<SECTION>>> The following types of activities are examples of behavior that are unethical
and unacceptable, and in some case may violate state or federal law:
 Violating copyright and/or software agreements
 Altering system software or hardware configurations
 Accessing another individuals’ account, private files, voicemail, or email without
permission of the owner
 Misrepresenting one’s identity in electronic communication
84







Violating rules or codes of conduct set by services (such as Galileo Raisers Edge,
Financial Edge, Empower, Upswing, WMS, Moodle, Gmail) subscribed to by the
College
Using College computing/communications systems to threaten or harass
Using College computing/communications systems for commercial or profitmaking purposes without written authorization from the College administration
Failure to follow established policies, procedures, and protocol
Accessing websites/information/material through the misrepresentation of age or
other requested information
<<<SECTION>>> Policies and regulations of the College, and state and federal law, are applicable to
all resources. Alleged violations of laws, policies, procedures, or protocol will be
processed as outlined under Misuse of Andrew College Informational Communications Resources.<<<SECTION>>>

Misuse of Andrew College Informational Communications Resources:
Individuals who misuse Andrew College informational/communications systems
by failure to comply with the Acceptable Use Policy are subject to loss of access to those
resources as well as other disciplinary action, depending upon the nature of the breach of
policy. In instances in which the alleged violations involve state/federal laws or
institutional conduct policies such as sexual harassment or non-discrimination, the
disciplinary procedure(s) outlined in the Andrew College Policy Manual or Student
Handbook will have precedence. Actions regarding access to
informational/communications resources will be based upon the determination of that
process.<<<SECTION>>> Individuals who have allegedly violated established policies/procedures will be
notified in writing of the alleged violation by the Vice President for Finance. A copy of
the notification will be given to the Dean of Student Affairs if the individual is a student;
the Dean of Academic Affairs if the individual is a faculty member; or to his/her
supervisor if the individual is a staff member.<<<SECTION>>> A hearing will be held by the Technology Committee to hear evidence in support
of the alleged violation. The individual accused of the violation will be given opportunity
to dispute and/or explain the alleged violation.<<<SECTION>>> Following the hearing the Technology Committee will determine whether or not a
violation took place and, if so, establish restrictions and/or the loss of access to
informational/communications resources. The determination of the committee will be
given to the individual in writing.<<<SECTION>>> The individual has the right to appeal if they feel that their hearing by the
committee was not fair and impartial. The appeal should be in writing and made to the
President of the College within 24 hours. The President will appoint an Appeals
Committee of three faculty and two staff members to review the hearing process and
procedure. The Appeals Committee will make a recommendation to the President whose
decision is final.

85
<<<SECTION>>>

Administrative Access:
In order to protect the integrity of its informational/communications systems
Andrew College reserves the right to gain access to all information residing in the
system(s). Data, information, and/or files which directly relate to system
operation/performance (System Information-Public) may be accessed by systems personnel
on a routine basis as a defined part of their job description. Access to data, information,
and/or files related to the administration or operations of the institution (Institutional
Information-Public) are limited to specific needs and departments as defined by Federal
Right-To-Privacy regulations and job description. Data, information, and/or files which
do not fall in either of the above two categories (System Information-Public or Institutional
Information-Public) are considered to be restricted and is classified as Non-Public Information.
Voicemail, email, and non-system files stored on the hard drive of a workstation are
examples of Non-Public Information. Access to Non-Public Information is limited to
designated personnel and only within the guidelines outlined below.
Access to Institutional Information-Public or Non-Public Information without proper
authorization is a serious violation of College policy and will subject personnel to
disciplinary action including possible dismissal.
Procedure for access to Institutional Information-Public or Non-Public Information:<<<SECTION>>> Authorization for access to data contained in files classified as Institutional
Information-Public or Non-Public Information must be granted before the fact.<<<SECTION>>> Need for access to Institutional Information-Public or Non-Public Information must be
communicated in writing by systems personnel to the Vice President for Finance. The
request must be specific in regards to the information/files to be accessed, the expected
time frame (beginning and ending) that access will be required, and the reason access is
necessary. The Vice President for Finance may approve access to Institutional InformationPublic based upon Federal Right-To-Privacy regulations and job description.<<<SECTION>>>

For access to Non-Public Information the Vice President for Finance may:
 Obtain the written authorization of the author/recipient of the
information, or
 Obtain written authorization from both the Dean of Academic Affairs
and President of the College. Access to Non-Public Information without the
written authorization of the author/recipient will be granted only under
court-order; when there is evidence that the Andrew College
informational/communications systems are being used for illegal
purposes; or when the safety and/or well-being of individuals or the
college community are involved
<<<SECTION>>> Upon termination of the employer-employee relationship all Non-Public Information
is reclassified as Institutional Information-Public. The Vice President for Finance may
authorize the purging of all such information from the system(s). It is the responsibility
of the employee to remove all his/her Non-Public Information from the Andrew College
system(s) prior to termination of the employment relationship.

86
<<<SECTION>>>

Andrew College Website Policy & Procedures:<<<SECTION>>> Purpose:
The purpose of the Andrew College website is to promote and to provide
information about the College’s programs, services, and activities to students
(both current and prospective), alumni, employees (both current and prospective),
agencies, and other interested parties.<<<SECTION>>>

Oversight Responsibility:<<<SECTION>>> Director of Communication and Marketing :
To assure that a consistent and desired image with high quality
and informative content is presented, all website information is subject to
review by the Director of Communications/Marketing before being
placed on the website by the Webmaster and reserves the right to remove
or refuse site uploads for any programs, HTML documents, graphics,
audio, forms or data that do not comply with College policies and
guidelines.
The Director of Communications/Marketing is responsible for
assuring that a periodic review of the website is performed to maintain
accuracy, currency, and compliance with the College’s Website Policy
& Procedures. The Webmaster provides technical support for the
website.<<<SECTION>>> Technology Committee:
The Andrew College website is to be reviewed twice a year by the
Technology Committee. The committee will submit a twice a year
“Website Review Report” to the Webmaster and Director of
Communication/Marketing. The report will contain:
 A listing of all non-routine changes made to the Andrew College
website
 A confirmation by coordinators that a monthly review of each
departmental web page has been performed
 Actions taken by the committee
 Recommendations of the committee made to the administration
Once a year during the Summer term, the cabinet officers will
review the website for obsolete, incorrect, or out of date information.
The cabinet officer will either supply corrected information or the data
will be removed from the web.<<<SECTION>>> Departments:
Each department is responsible for the creation and maintenance
of the content of their web page and must identify a coordinator to work
with the Webmaster on submittals. The coordinator will be responsible
for developing, maintaining, reviewing, and updating the material the
department publishes on the web. The coordinator will be the only
person authorized to submit material for inclusion on the departmental
87

web page. In case of change in the coordinator, the department head
should inform the Webmaster.
Web page coordinators must have their submittals approved by
their department head, since all pages represent official statements of that
department. The department head is ultimately responsible for the
content of the information which is presented via the Web.<<<SECTION>>>

Acceptable Use Policies:
 Materials placed on the College’s website represent the College and not
individual departments or employees. Each Andrew College department
is eligible for home pages on the College website.
 Each department is expected to provide materials that are consistent with
College policies, federal and state law, and established
procedures/formats, including the mission and image of the College.
Infringement of copyright laws, obscene, harassing or threatening
materials on websites can be in violation of local, state, national or
international laws.
 The website cannot be used for purposes other than official College
business.
 Student organization, faculty, and staff web pages with content related to
the College are not considered official Andrew College web pages.
Individual faculty, staff, and student organization advisors who publish
web pages are responsible for the content, links, and images on such
pages. Authors must insure that their web pages are consistent with the
College’s image and mission and comply with College policies and
procedures and applicable laws. Disclaimers and copyright notices must
be provided on the web pages. Disclaimer for personal staff or faculty
pages: “This is a personal web page and is not endorsed or affiliated in
any manner with Andrew College.” Disclaimer for student organization
pages: “This page is authored by a student organization of Andrew
College. Andrew College does not guarantee or endorse the content.”
 Copyrighted materials must be cleared for use. Trademarks are the
property of their owners and must be used by permission.
 Links to other pages on the Andrew College website are encouraged.
Avoid duplicating documents that appear elsewhere on the website by
providing a link to them instead
 Links to external sites that have educational value or contain information
of interest to the College community may be used if approved by the
Director of Communication/Marketing. Linked sites must not contain
content, requests for information, or data gathering technology that is in
conflict with Andrew College website policies. If external links are used,
the departmental coordinator for that page assumes the responsibility to
monitor the linked site for changes which might make it inappropriate.
The following message will be displayed when leaving the Andrew College
website “You have selected a website that is not controlled by Andrew College as to
content and operation. Do you wish to continue?
88







Do not include overly large graphic images on your web pages since some
users are viewing documents using slow speed modems and downloading
these images can take a great deal of time. When including video or voice
files, include the file size (ie: 10KB or 2MB) next to the description, so the
user has the option of knowing how long it will take to download the file.
Graphics should be included in website materials only to the extent
necessary to accomplish the purpose of the document
The Andrew College logo, spire, mascot, or other official images cannot
be modified
Andrew College has adopted a singular format for web page structure. All
departmental web page material must be compatible with the adopted
layout. Consult the Webmaster for assistance
Web pages must be reviewed on a regular basis to assure that they are
current and comply with the policies and procedures of the department
and the College. The Webmaster may remove pages if they are not
current

Andrew College web pages cannot include:
 Copyrighted materials without permission
 Audio, pictures or videos of people without their written consent
 Commercial, for-profit activities or advertisements in any form
 Confidential information
 Images or data (or links to other pages) which are inconsistent with the
College’s mission or image as a church related institution<<<SECTION>>>

Procedure & Guidelines for Submitting Materials:
 The departmental coordinator will be responsible for developing,
maintaining, reviewing, and updating the material the department
publishes on the web. The coordinator will be the only person authorized
to submit material (text, photos, forms, documents) for inclusion on the
departmental web page. The Webmaster will review all web pages once a
year for accuracy and timeliness
 All material must be spell checked and proofread prior to submittal to the
Webmaster
 Text and documents should be submitted in Word or Excel. The
Webmaster will convert them to a .PDF format acceptable for the web
pages
 Photographs are to be submitted in .JPEG format as separate files and
cannot be imbedded in submitted text. Imbedded photos pose problems
during the conversion process
 Standard document structure is required for job opening postings, staffing
and telephone directories. These are available from the Webmaster
 The departmental coordinator, after receiving approval from his/her
supervisor (and Director of Communication/Marketing if appropriate
for new and/or substantial changes), will submit web page content to the
Webmaster for placement on the website. The Webmaster will provide
templates, technical assistance, and design elements as needed. The
89
coordinator will


<<<SECTION>>>

be notified after the material is placed on the website. The coordinator
will then perform a final check for appearance and accuracy
No commercial or for-profit information will appear on any home page
The Webmaster reserves the right to modify home page code at any time
if security and/or performance is adversely affected

Access Management to Administrative and Student Information System:
For those employees whose job assignments require access to software systems
beyond basic email and internet, additional approval is required. Approval is granted
through the Vice President for Finance. Justification of need, appropriate training in the
software, demonstrated knowledge of FERPA regulations, and approval of supervisory
personnel are key elements in granting access. Before granting access to administrative
(Razor’s Edge/Financial Edge) or student information (Empower) systems the Vice
President for Finance must be provided:
 Notification that the employee has successfully completed an assigned training
module on FERPA, as well as
 A written request from the employee’s cabinet level supervisor which contains:
o The employee’s name, department, and title
o Identification of the software which is needed to be accessed
o Listing of modules and levels of access rights requested
o Identification of person/entity providing training on software
Upon transfer, termination, or other changes in job assignment of the employee
the cabinet level supervisor must immediately notify the Vice President for Finance of the
change so that the appropriate action can be taken.
<<<SECTION>>>

Termination/Changes of Access:
Termination/Changes of access to portions or all of the electronic informational
system of the College may be taken for the following reasons:<<<SECTION>>>

Change in Job Classification or Position:
If an employee has a change in job classification or position that realigns
his/her need for access to information or communications requirements, the
responsible supervisor will notify the Vice President for Finance who will approve
the change based upon applicable policies (ie FERPA, privacy, etc.) and then
notify the Director of IT to make the changes.
<<<SECTION>>>

Termination of Employment:
All access to the informational system will be immediately revoked if an
employee is terminated by the College. For security reasons termination of access
may be taken prior to official notification of the employee of their termination.
Supervisors will notify the Vice President for Finance of pending and actual
employment terminations so that access changes can be made in a timely manner.
The Vice President for Finance will notify the Director of IT for removal of
access.
<<<SECTION>>>

Failure to Comply with College Policies and Procedures:
A failure to comply with College policies and procedures may result in a
temporary or permanent change in access to the informational/communications.
90

Section 7.0

Advancement Policies<<<SECTION>>>

Fundraising Policy:
The Office of Development is responsible for the overall advancement of the
College through fundraising, alumni relations.
Andrew College enjoys the public trust and the tax exempt status afforded by the
Internal Revenue Service. Therefore, it is in the best interest of the College to ensure that
the fundraising activities of its various constituencies maintain the public trust and
comply with the guidelines set forth in the U.S. tax code.
Andrew College realizes that, from time to time, clubs/organizations, athletic
teams, and other campus groups may hold fundraising activities to enhance their ability to
serve the Andrew College community. In any fundraising effort there is to be no
interference with the educational process and all funds raised must be used in a manner
consistent with the mission of the college.<<<SECTION>>>

Approval for On-Campus Fundraising Activities:
All fundraising events by clubs, organizations or athletic teams held on
campus and for the campus community must be approved by the Office of
Student Affairs and placed on the campus calendar. Such activities include car
washes, bake sales, service activities, etc.
<<<SECTION>>>

Approval for Off-Campus Fundraising Activities:
Any club/organization, athletic team, or other campus group in the
Andrew College community wishing to solicit funds from constituents outside the
Andrew College community for sponsorships or special projects must seek
approval from the Office of Development. A list of prospective donors, as well
as a list of potential solicitors, must be provided to the Office of Development at
least two weeks prior to the fundraising event. Letters will be sent to prospective
donors asking for their support of the project and alerting them as to when they
can expect a solicitation. No approval will be made to an organization or club,
athletic team, or campus group without a list of prospective donors and potential
sponsors. The Office of Development reserves the right to remove any name
from the list of prospective donors where a conflict arises with the ongoing
institutional development program of the College.
<<<SECTION>>> Limit on Third Party Solicitation:
It is in the best interest of Andrew College to control the content and
presentation of the solicitation process. Therefore, all fundraising events must be
coordinated and solicited by members of the Andrew community (faculty,
students, administration, trustees and staff). No outside organization or
individual may be retained to solicit funds for Andrew College, or use the name
of Andrew College or one of its organizations or athletic teams to solicit funds.
The only exception to this occurs in certain instances, such as a capital campaign,
where the President may approve the use of an outside organization or individual
to aid in the coordination and solicitation of donors.

91
<<<SECTION>>>
<<<SECTION>>>

Solicitation of Funds for Scholarships:
No club, organization or athletic team may solicit funds for scholarships.
If a prospective scholarship donor is identified, the name should be brought to
the attention of the Vice President for Advancement, who will coordinate the
cultivation and solicitation effort.

Alumni Relations:
All alumni relation activities will be coordinated through the Office of
Development to ensure a consistent message.

92

Section 8.0

Business Policies<<<SECTION>>>

Purchasing and Purchase Orders:
The College operates on a purchase order system in order to safeguard institutional
resources and control expenditures. All departments operate under a controlled budget.
Purchases must be made or charged to the College by the purchase order system. Employees
must follow established policies and procedures when purchasing goods and/or services for
the College. Purchases made or orders charged to Andrew College without proper Purchase
Order (P.O.) approval, are the responsibility of the individual, not of Andrew College.<<<SECTION>>> All purchases exceeding $500 must be initiated on a purchase order form and the
P.O. must be completed and approved in advance of any purchase transaction. Purchase
order forms are available from the Business Office.<<<SECTION>>> Vendors must be approved by the Vice President for Finance or Controller prior to
any purchase. A list of approved vendors can be accessed at F:\Shared Memo & Forms.
Contact the Bursar or Controller for information on adding a vendor.<<<SECTION>>> A P.O. must be complete, including order date, date wanted, vendor, description,
quantity and amount of purchase. The employee placing the order should sign the P.O.,
enter a complete account number (12 characters) and obtain the approval of the appropriate
member of the President’s Cabinet. If a P.O. is to serve as a check request, the words
“CHECK REQUEST” must be written on the P.O.<<<SECTION>>> Upon approval of the department head, a copy of the P.O. must be sent to the
Business Office. It is not the responsibility of the Business Office to mail, fax or in
any way make the purchase.<<<SECTION>>> Upon receipt of the item(s) ordered, the originator should check to make sure that
the shipment is satisfactory as to item(s) ordered, condition received and price charged.
Invoices accompanying the shipment should be approved by a signature, reference the
P.O. by date and number, and have the department head approve any changes. The invoice
should then be sent to the Business Office for payment.<<<SECTION>>> Purchases for amounts less than $500 may be submitted to the Business Office for
payment by invoice, bill or check request voucher. Check Request Vouchers are available in
the Business Office or can be accessed at F:\Shared Memo & Forms. Requested payment
for amounts less than $500 must have the originators signature, account number to be
charged and cabinet member’s approval.<<<SECTION>>> Technology purchases using College funds must be approved, in advance, by the
Director of Information Technology. These purchases include but are not limited to:
computer, laptop, tablet, printer, fax, phone, scanner, security system, security camera,
credit card machines, software and software licensing.
<<<SECTION>>>

Accounts Payable Checks:
All accounts payable checks are processed each week. Requests received in the
Business Office by close of business each Friday, will be processed the following week. All
checks for students, faculty and staff will be available for pickup in the Business Office.
93

Upon written request, faculty and staff checks may be distributed through campus mail. The
check processing schedule, in the Business Office, may vary due to holidays or unforeseen
circumstances, but every effort will be made to follow the designated schedule.
Andrew College’s fiscal year runs from July 1st to June 30th each year. For checks to
be processed prior to year’s end, purchases and expense reimbursements must be made prior
to June 30th.<<<SECTION>>>

Administrative Pay Corrections:
Andrew College takes all reasonable steps to ensure that all employees receive the
correct amount of pay in each payroll and are paid promptly on the scheduled payday.
In the unlikely event that there is an error in the amount of pay, the discrepancy
should be brought to the attention of the Director of Human Resources so that corrections
can be made as quickly as possible.
<<<SECTION>>>

Paydays:
All employees are paid by Electronic Funds Transfer (EFT also known as Direct
Deposit) semi-monthly on the 15th and last day of the month unless those dates fall on a
holiday, bank holiday or weekend. Upon this occurrence, employees will be paid the
business day before that date. Each payroll will include earnings for all work performed
through the end of that payroll period (ex. June 15th payroll will include the days of June 1st –
June 15th). Employees will receive a direct deposit payroll statement from the Business Office
on the scheduled payday through on-campus mail. Compensation for teaching overloads or
for adjunct pay may vary depending upon the term and the appointment. Please check with
the Director of Human Resources for payment schedules on items such as these.
<<<SECTION>>>

Pay Advances:
Andrew College does not provide pay advances or unscheduled pay disbursements to
any employee.
<<<SECTION>>>

Timekeeping:
Accurately recording time worked is the responsibility of every non-exempt
employee. Federal and state laws require Andrew College to keep an accurate record of time
worked in order to calculate staff member pay and benefits. Time worked is all the time
actually spent on the job performing assigned duties.
Non-exempt staff members should accurately record the time they begin and end
their work, as well as the beginning and ending time of each meal period. They should also
record the beginning and ending time of any split shift or departure from work for personal
reasons. Overtime work must always be approved before it is performed. Altering,
falsifying, tampering with time records, or recording time on another employee's time record
may result in disciplinary action, up to and including termination of employment.
It is the employee's responsibility to sign his or her time record to certify the accuracy
of all time recorded. The supervisor will review and then initial the time record before

94

submitting it for payroll processing. Upon request, the Director of Human Resources can
provide a schedule of timesheet due dates.<<<SECTION>>>

Travel Expenses:
Andrew College will reimburse faculty and staff members for reasonable business
travel expenses incurred while on assignments away from the normal work location subject
to the limitations set forth in this policy statement.
When approved, the actual costs of travel, lodging, and other expenses directly
related to accomplishing business travel objectives will be reimbursed by Andrew College.
Meal reimbursement is accomplished by using a per-diem rate published by the Vice
President for Finance. Partial rates of per-diem will be paid for partial days of travel. The
Vice President for Finance has a list of recommended high cost area per-diem rates.
Reimbursement for business use of personal vehicles will be at a mileage rate published by
the Vice President for Finance. The mileage rate for personal auto use includes gas costs.
Tolls and parking are not covered by the mileage rate and will be separately reimbursed. If
parking and toll expenses are under $20 and a receipt is not available a cabinet member can
approve the expense providing the date, location and amount. When traveling by personal
auto on College business, the employee’s auto insurance will provide first coverage for any
claims that arise during the travel. The College’s liability coverage will provide secondary
coverage only. Employees who rent automobiles while on business travel should decline
extra insurance coverage for the rented vehicle since the College’s auto insurance covers the
vehicle as if the College owns it. Any accidents or damages to a rental vehicle must be
reported immediately to the Vice President for Finance.
Travelers should use standard accommodations for travel, hotels, and meals. The
College does not have a contract travel agent. Travelers should book their own reservations
either by calling the hotel or airline directly, using a travel agent of their choice, or via the
internet. Airline and hotel reservations should be booked far enough in advance to take
advantage of advance purchase discounts. The College does not reimburse for First or
Business Class airline travel or luxury hotel accommodations. Faculty and staff members are
expected to limit expenses to reasonable amounts and are expected to exercise the same care
in incurring expenses that a prudent person would exercise if traveling on personal business.
Cash advances to cover reasonable anticipated expenses may be made to faculty and
staff members after travel has been approved. Written requests for advances should be
made to the Business Office at least one week prior to the date travel advances are needed.
When a travel advance has been made to an employee, a travel expense report must be
submitted within two business days after the travel has been completed along with all
receipts and the return of unused funds, if any. If the proper documents for cash advances
are not received within two business days, the Business Office will notify the faculty or staff
member that requested the advance and the cabinet officer responsible for that department.
Advances that are not cleared by the close of the next business day will be reported to the
Vice President for Finance. The Vice President for Finance may request immediate return
of the advanced funds. No additional advances will be processed until prior advances are
cleared. All travel advances must be approved by the appropriate cabinet official. Travel
advances for cabinet officials must be approved by the President of Andrew College.
95

With prior approval, faculty and staff members on business travel may be
accompanied by a family member or friend when the presence of a companion will not
interfere with successful completion of business objectives. Generally, faculty and staff
members are also permitted to combine personal travel with business travel. Additional
expenses arising from such non-business travel and/or companions are the responsibility of
the faculty or staff member.
When travel is completed, travel expense reports should be turned in to the Business
Office within seven days (within two days when a cash advance has been issued). Reports
should be accompanied by receipts for all individual expenses. Receipts for meals are not
required if the purchase of the meal is below $50. Travel reports should be approved by the
faculty or staff member's supervisor before submittal to the Business Office. Travel
Expense forms are available in the Business Office.
Abuse of this business travel expenses policy, including falsifying expense reports to
reflect costs not incurred, can be grounds for disciplinary action, up to and including
termination of employment.<<<SECTION>>>

Budgets:<<<SECTION>>>

Current Fund Budget Procedures:
Andrew College operates under a budgetary system based on a fiscal year
of July 1st to June 30th. It is the responsibility of the Vice President for Finance
and Controller to insure that the process is completed properly and in a timely
manner. Budget forms are provided to the President and the department heads,
who are members of the President’s Cabinet, in order to initiate the budget
process. The Vice President for Finance and Controller in conjunction with the
President and President’s Cabinet, evaluate the department’s expense request and
the revenue projections, the goal being to produce a balanced budget. At the
Spring meeting, the proposed budget is presented to the Board of Trustees for
approval.
The Controller is responsible for managing and reporting on budget
activity through-out the fiscal year. Weekly and monthly reports keep the
President and President’s Cabinet informed on budget activity. Revisions to the
budget are performed in September and January after student revenue numbers
are evident as well as any other known variances. After each revision, a revised
budget is presented to the Board of Trustees for approval.
The accounting software, currently used by the Business Office, is
Blackbaud’s “Financial Edge” (FE). FE has an option of linking an attribute to a
general ledger account. All current fund revenue and expense accounts have a
“Budget Manager” attribute. The name of the cabinet member that has
responsibility for the account is listed as the “Budget Manager.” Reports to
cabinet members are filtered by the “Budget Manager” attribute and through an
email function in FE’s “Reports” can be sent in a choice of several formats to
each department head. This feature insures that a department head reviews all
budgeted accounts. The Dean of Academic Affairs and the Dean of Student
96

Affairs have “view only” rights to the General Ledger and can access activity at
any time.
Cabinet members (other than those with “view only” rights) receive
weekly “Budget Summary” reports and monthly “Budget Detail” reports. The
President has “view only” access to all financial reporting and can view full year as
well as year-to-date budgets and actual to date activity. A variance based on a full
year budget as well as a variance based on a year-to-date budget is also available.<<<SECTION>>>

Management of Current Fund Budget:
 Once the budget is approved by the Board of Trustees, it should be
“locked” in FE.
 After the budget is locked, department heads can move budgeted funds
from one account to another account as Budget Manager, but cannot
increase or decrease the overall budget.
 It is the responsibility of the cabinet member not to exceed the approved
budget amounts in any department.
 The Controller is responsible for monitoring account budgets and
notifying the department head when an account is out of budgeted
funds.
 The Controller sends current year Budget Summary Reports to all cabinet
members (except those with “view only” right) on a weekly schedule
 A Budget Detail Report is sent to each cabinet member on a monthly
schedule.
 The Controller reviews monthly “Income Statements” reporting activity
to date and full year variances, and any necessary notes are added in order
to bring any major variances to the attention of the Vice President for
Finance. The Vice President for Finance who also reviews and adds any
additional note prior to presenting to the President.
 The Current Year Budget is re-evaluated two times during the fiscal year:
First following the Fall registration in August and again following the
Spring registration in January.
 Proposed changes to the budget are presented to the Board of Trustees
at the Fall and Spring scheduled meetings.
<<<SECTION>>>

Timeline for Next Year’s Budget:
In mid-January the Controller prepares next year budget reports that are
distributed to each cabinet member. These reports may include actual expenses
for prior budget years as well as current year budget and year-to date actual
expenses. Each cabinet member submits their next year budget request by
completing appropriate fields on the reports and returning the report to the
Controller or Vice President for Finance. Upon approval by the Vice President
for Finance and President, the next year’s budget is presented to the Board of
Trustees at the Spring Board meeting.

97
<<<SECTION>>>

Financial Reporting and Annual Audits:
It is the responsibility of the Vice President for Finance and Controller to insure
that annual financial statements for Andrew College are created. These financial
statements need to be compiled for presentation to members of the Andrew College
Board of Trustees, cabinet officials, banks used by the College, accreditation bodies,
government agencies and agencies donating funds to the College.
The fiscal year for Andrew College begins on July 1st of each year and ends the
following June 30th. Financial statements created by Andrew College personnel are
prepared in accordance with GAAP (Generally Accepted Accounting Principles) and
dictated by FASB (Financial Accounting Standards Board). Currently three financial
statements are prepared that are required by the FASB. Those statements are:
 Statement of Financial Position (Balance Sheet)
 Statement of Activities (Income Statement)
 Statement of Cash Flows
Normally, the current and previous fiscal years are displayed on the statements.
In addition, notes to the financial statements are also prepared.
It is a requirement from the U.S. Department of Education that all institutions of
higher education, that use federal funds, must supply annual financial statements that are
audited by an independent accounting agency or firm. Andrew College uses an
independent Certified Public Accounting firm to perform its annual audit. The Vice
President for Finance and Controller solicit bids from accounting firms who are
interested in performing the annual audit. They recommend a firm to the Audit
Committee of the Andrew College Board of Trustees for approval.
In addition to the annual financial audit, Andrew College is required to submit an
annual report to the federal government to show it is in compliance with the U.S. Office
of Management and Budget (OMB) Circular A-133 entitled “Audits of States, Local
Governments and Non-Profit Organizations.” The College chooses to let the same
accounting firm perform both the A-133 compliance letter and annual financial audit.
The financial audit and compliance reports, plus financial statement information, are
prepared and distributed to the Vice President for Finance, Controller and the Audit
Committee.
Any audit or compliance findings found for a particular fiscal year should be
explained by the auditor in the audit report. An appropriate response should be prepared
by the Vice President for Finance and displayed in the audit report. Any repeat findings
from previous fiscal years should also be denoted in the audit or compliance report.
<<<SECTION>>>

Student Accounts:<<<SECTION>>> General Statement of Student’s Financial Obligations:
Full payment is due on or before registration unless prior arrangements
have been made with FACTS. Information about payment plans available
through FACTS is available upon request in the Business Office. A student
who is delinquent in his or her financial obligation to any facet of the College
98

community including fines, charges for non-return of keys, library books or other
College property, will not be allowed to register or enroll for the next term,
graduate, or receive transcripts. Andrew College reserves the right to withdraw
the registration of students who fail to promptly meet their financial obligations
to the College. If a student's registration is withdrawn, the student cannot attend
class, must vacate student housing, and will not be able to participate in the
campus food service program. The College has the right to add interest and
recovery costs to past due student accounts.<<<SECTION>>> Refunds:
Upon registration of a student, the College commits to expenses of a
continuing nature based upon the expectation that the student will remain
enrolled for the entire term. Refund policies reflect the need to meet those
expenses and to comply with guidelines for student financial aid policies. For
students receiving Federal Title IV and/or state-based financial aid, federal
guidelines determine how these funds are earned and refunded and are
independent of the College’s tuition and fee refund policy. Refer to the official
refund policy as published in the current Andrew College Catalog.<<<SECTION>>> Vesting of Institutional Aid:
Institutional financial aid (Andrew College Scholarships) does not vest
with the student until the 15th day of enrollment. A student who withdraws
before 15 days will have their institutional scholarship revoked. The revocation
of an institutional scholarship may reduce the refund due to a student. On the
15th day of enrollment, the student is vested in 100% of the institutional aid and
the full amount of the scholarship will be calculated in any subsequent refund if
the student withdraws from the College.<<<SECTION>>> Past Due Accounts and Collections ~ (After the Student Departs):
Students with unpaid balances on their student accounts cannot preregister or register for additional academic sessions. Transcripts will be withheld
until full payment is made and the payment has cleared the College’s bank
account.<<<SECTION>>>

Cash Management:<<<SECTION>>> Cash Cycle:
All payments received by the Business Office are forwarded on a daily
basis to the Bursar. These payments may be in the form of cash, checks, or credit
card receipts. However, most payments are in the form of checks. The Bursar
maintains control of all payments received. All funds are locked in the Business
Office safe nightly, and the Bursar completes deposit slips in a batch weekly,
except if the month ends before the week ends. The Bursar stamps all checks
“For Deposit Only” and completes deposit slips. The Bursar reviews the deposit
slips and the accounts before delivering the deposit to the bank and returns
deposit slips for receipting into the cash receipts database to the appropriate
accounts. A receipt is printed and matched with supporting documentation;
afterwards, the documents are given to the Controller for reconciling and
99

posting into the FE’s General Ledger. A copy of the deposit slips with the bank
receipt confirmation stamp is maintained and used in the monthly reconciliation
process.
A separate receipt process is used with donations received in the Office of
Development. All donations received by the Office of Development, the Bursar,
or the President are maintained by the Bursar for batch processing (usually
weekly). The Office of Development enters all donations into Raiser’s Edge
(RE). Afterwards, he/she delivers the donations and totals sheet to the Bursar.
The Bursar makes copies of all donations, stamps all checks “For Deposit Only”
and completes deposit slips. Bursar enters them on a Cash Receipts spreadsheet
on which he/she totals donations by fund (Current, Plant, Restricted, and
Endowment) as well as category (Cash, Non-cash, Stocks, etc.). The Bursar runs a
RE Batch Validation report to verify the accuracy of donors and amounts as well
as totals by fund. If “Batch Validation” balances with the deposit, the Bursar runs
a Post Report to post the funds in RE as well as run a Post Report to post entries
in the revenue and control accounts in the FE’s General Ledger. The Post Report
is maintained in the Bursar files. Afterwards, a copy of the spreadsheet entries and
totals by fund, by date, copies of checks, stock information, credit card receipts,
the Batch Validation report, and the Post Report is used by the Bursar to attach
to his/her receipt file as well as match totals of deposit slips. A bank confirmed
stamped deposit slip is then used for receipting the deposit into the cash receipts
database. Upon completion, he/she gives documents to the Controller for
reconciling and posting. The documents are given back to the Bursar to be filed.<<<SECTION>>> Cash Receipts:
All payments received by the Business Office are forwarded on a daily
basis to the Bursar. These payments may be in the form of cash, check, or
credit card receipt. However, most payments are in the form of check. The
Bursar maintains control of all payments received. The Bursar totals amounts
received, stamps all checks “For Deposit Only” weekly, except if the month
ends before the weekends and completes deposit slips. The Bursar reviews the
deposit slips before delivering the deposit to the bank. A copy of the deposit
slip with the bank receipt confirmation stamp is maintained and used in the
monthly reconciliation process.
The Controller posts all entries throughout the month to the appropriate
accounts. For each posted item, a report is printed and matched with supporting
documentation; afterwards they are filed in the cash receipts files.
A separate receipt process is used with donations received in the Office of
Development. All donations received by the Office of Development, the Bursar,
or the President are maintained by the Bursar for batch processing (usually

100

weekly). The Office of Development enters all donations into RE. Afterwards, the
donations are delivered to the Bursar, but a copy is kept for their files. As donations are
received, the Bursar completes and reviews the deposit slips and delivers the deposits to
the bank. The Bursar enters them on a Cash Receipts spreadsheet on which she totals
donations by fund (Operating, Plant, Endowment, and Restricted) as well as category
(Cash, Non-cash, Stocks, etc.), afterwards a RE Pre-post (Batch Validation) report is
processed in a trial mode to verify the accuracy of donors and amounts as well as totals by
fund. If totals are accurate, a Post Report which posts the entries to the General Ledger
in FE is completed. The Bursar takes a confirmed stamped deposit slip and supporting
documents for entering into the cash receipts module of FE. The Controller will post
amounts to the General Ledger in FE. The actual report is maintained in the Bursar’s files
which include a copy of the donations spreadsheet by date, supporting documentation,
and Batch Validation and Post report.<<<SECTION>>> Credit Card Payments:
Credit Card Acceptance and Processing:
In the course of doing business at Andrew College it may be necessary for a
department or other unit to accept credit cards for payment. Any department accepting
credit cards on behalf of the College must designate an individual within the department
who will have primary authority and responsibility within that department for credit card
transactions. The Vice President for Finance must approve appointment and the
department’s procedure in handling credit card processing.
Credit Card Data Security Policy:
This policy addresses Payment Card Industry (PCI) Data Security Standards (DSS)
that are contractually imposed by the major credit card brands on merchants that accept
these cards as forms of payment. The policy covers the following specific areas contained
in the PCI standards related to cardholder data: collecting, processing, transmitting,
storing and disposing of cardholder data.
Procedures must be documented by the department and approved by the Vice
President for Finance and available for periodic review. Departments must
have in place the following components in their procedures and ensure that these
components are maintained on an ongoing basis:
1. Cardholder data collected are restricted only to those users who need the data to
perform their jobs.
2. Cardholder data, whether collected on paper or electronically, are
protected against unauthorized access.
3. All equipment used to collect data is secured against unauthorized use in
accordance with the PCI DSS.
4. Physical security controls are in place to prevent unauthorized individuals from
gaining access to the buildings, rooms, or cabinets that store the equipment,
documents or electronic files containing cardholder data.
5. The Department of Computer Services is responsible for PCI compliance for any
electronic payment gateway and any centrally administered servers that process,
store or transmit cardholder data. Individual departments are held responsible
for PCI compliance for all departmental procedures, applications and point of
sale devices that process, store or transmit cardholder data. All controls,
including firewalls and encryption, should be documented and verified. 101
6. Email should not be used to transmit credit card or personal payment

information, nor should it be accepted as a method to supply such
information.
7. If a fax machine is used to transmit credit card information to an authorized
department, that machine should be a standalone machine with appropriate
physical security. Disposal of credit card information provided via fax should
follow #10 below.
8. No database, electronic file, or other electronic repository of information will
store credit or debit card numbers, the full contents of any track from the
magnetic stripe, or the card-validation code.
9. Portable electronic media devices should not be used to store cardholder data.
These devices include, but are not limited to, the following: laptops, compact
disks, floppy disks, USB flash drives, personal digital assistants and portable
external hard drives.
10. Cardholder paper data including full contents of account number and expiration
date should be retained only until confirmation of transaction is complete. The
maximum period of time the data may be retained is 90 days. Paper documents
must be shredded prior to disposal.
Responding to a Security Breach:
In the event of a breach or suspected breach of security, the department must
immediately execute each of the relevant steps:
1. Document every action you take from the point of suspected breach
forward, preserving any logs or electronic evidence available
2. Disconnect the computer/devices(s) from the network
3. Do not turn the computer device off or reboot
4. Notify the cabinet member of the department experiencing the breach. The
cabinet member should notify the Vice President for Finance and provide the
details of the breach. The Vice President for Finance will
instruct the Director of IT if the breach involves electronic devices
If warranted, the Vice President for Finance will alert the merchant bank, the
payment card association, the internal auditors, the College President and the College
Counsel.<<<SECTION>>>

Endowment Policies:<<<SECTION>>> Definitions:
True Endowment: Funds given to the College with donor-imposed restriction that the
funds are not to be expended but are to be invested for the purpose of producing income.
The minimum gift amount to endow a scholarship is
$10,000.
Quasi Endowment: Funds that the Board of Trustees has designated are not to be
expended but are to be invested for the long term for the purpose of producing income.
Quasi endowment will be approved by Board of Trustees resolution and be specific as to
amount and source of funds.
Total Return: The sum of capital appreciation (or loss) and current income achieved in
the form of interest or dividends.
102
Real Return: The total return less the rate of inflation.

Portfolio: A diversified mix of investment assets. In this case, the portfolio is the entire
endowment fund.
Asset Class: A broad category of investment assets. For our purposes the asset classes are
equities, fixed-income, and cash.
Asset: An individual investment vehicle: stocks, bonds, or shares in a mutual fund.
Unit Value: The value of a unit in a co-mingled fund. The value is based on the market
value of the underlying assets that compose the fund and is calculated by dividing the total
number of units by the market value to the fund.<<<SECTION>>> Objectives:
The primary long-term financial objective for the endowment is to preserve the
real (inflation-adjusted) purchasing power of endowment assets and income after
accounting for endowment spending, inflation, and costs of portfolio management.
Performance of the overall endowment against this objective is measured over rolling
periods of at least five years.
The endowment shall be managed to optimize the long run total rate of return on
invested assets, assuming a prudent level of risk. The goal for this rate of return is one that
funds the College’s existing spending policy and allows
sufficient reinvestment to grow the endowment principal at a rate that exceeds
inflation (as measured by the Consumer Price Index).
Over the short term, the return for each element of the endowment portfolio
should match or exceed each of the returns for the broader capital markets in which
assets are invested.<<<SECTION>>> Investment Policies:
In general, the endowment shall not sell securities short, buy securities on margin,
buy or sell uncovered options, commodities, or currencies. In addition the endowment
shall not invest in unregistered or restricted stock, warrants, or securities which do not
have ready markets for resale. Funds of the True Endowment shall not be pledged or
used for collateral. Quasi Endowment funds may be used as collateral only if approved by
the Board of Trustees. In all other ways, the True and Quasi Endowment funds shall be
similarly managed.
Except for those funds where the assets cannot be co-mingled, endowment funds
shall be invested in a co-mingled (unitized) pool, based upon the number of shares
owned, and will share proportionately in the investment results of the consolidated
investment pool. Each new gift will be transferred to the fund for investment purposes
and receive units in the fund. The unit value shall be determined annually and income
determined under the College’s spending policy shall be calculated on a unit basis for
distribution purposes.
The endowment fund will be managed primarily by external investment
managers. The managers have discretion, within the guidelines set forth in the
Investment Policy to manage the assets in each portfolio to achieve the investment
103
objectives. The Investment Committee of the Andrew College Board of Trustees will set

the investment guidelines for the Endowment.
It is recognized that, over the long term, actively managed funds fail to
consistently outperform indices associated with the particular asset class in which the
actively managed fund is invested (for example, the S&P 500 as an index for large U.S.
stocks). For this reason, the endowment will be biased toward index funds where efficient
markets prevail. The endowment will be broadly diversified. With the exception of
obligations, or securities guaranteed by the U.S. government, no purchase shall be made
that will cause more than ten percent of the fund’s assets to be invested in securities of
any one company or issuer.
It is recognized that the endowment is a long-term investment. Risk and volatility
inherent in investment are understood to be ameliorated by a long time horizon. The
endowment will be managed with this long-term perspective.
Expectations of risk and return will be based on the long-term averages (30 years or
longer) for the markets in which the endowment invests. Selection of managers and
allocation of assets will be accomplished in a circumspect manner and not in reaction to
short term changes in the market.
Income generated by the endowment in the form of interest, dividends, or
distributed capital gains will be immediately reinvested. In the absence of an automatic
reinvestment arrangement for a particular fund or security, the Vice President for Finance
will determine the destination for investment cash flow, so as to closely match the targeted
asset allocation.<<<SECTION>>> Responsibilities and Investment Management:
The Investment Committee of the Board of Trustees shall be responsible for the
investment of the College’s endowment funds. Action taken by the committee shall be
reviewed and approved periodically by the Board of Trustees. The committee has the
following authority and responsibilities to act on behalf of the Board of Trustees in
connection with the investment of these funds:
 Establishment, oversight and review of investment policies and objectives. This
annual review will take place in March of each year, so that actions that impact the
College’s fiscal operating year can be implemented before the end of June
 Allocation of funds among equity, fixed-income, and cash
 Annual review of each investment manager with regard to performance results,
investment activity, and adherence to policy
 Approval of the hiring and termination of relationships with outside
investment managers
 Recommend changes in the endowment spending policy to the Board of
Trustees
 Present an annual report to the Board of Trustees on the composition and
performance of the endowment
 The Vice President for Finance will act as custodian for the endowment funds
or appoint a third party to act as a consultant and custodian. As part of this
custodial function the Vice President for Finance will:
o Make individual investment decisions, allocate investment cash flow to
the appropriate investment vehicles, and otherwise manage the outside
investment managers in accordance with this policy
104
o Maintain records pertaining to the endowment and prepare annual

performance reports
o Draw funds or spend monies as required by donor requests
Investment managers will be hired in writing and their services specified in that
written agreement. Investment managers will adhere to the policies contained in this
document. Investment managers will vote proxies on the endowment securities, unless
otherwise instructed by the Vice President for Finance. Additionally, the Vice President
for Finance should be informed of any change in firm ownership or fundamental
investment philosophy.<<<SECTION>>> Spending Policy:
The current spending policy shall be a maximum of five percent of a
three-year moving market value average (calculated as of the last day of June, omitting the
previous year and then for the prior three years) of invested assets. Such a policy will allow
for a greater predictability of spendable income for budgeting purposes and for gradual
steady growth for the support of operations by the endowment. In addition, this policy
will minimize the probability of invading the principal over the long term.
Spending may be taken from current income or if current income is less than planned
spending, from principal. Spending in a given year will reduce the unit value of each
endowment element by five percent. In no case will funds designated as True
Endowment be reduced below their initial unit value without the approval of the Board of
Trustees. In the case of short-term declines in the market value of the endowment pool of
funds, the overall spending rate may be calculated below five percent in order to maintain
the original unit value of certain elements of the True Endowment. Growth of the unit
values over time should allow for spending of principal, without drawing from the original
corpus of a particular gift. The five percent spending rate will apply to Quasi Endowment
without regard to initial unit value. Gifts held in the short term investment account
awaiting integration into the unitized endowment pool will not be considered for spending
policy purposes.
The Investment Committee will review spending policy and make a
recommendation to the Board of Trustees. Results of operations, capital budgeting
requirements and the overall financial health of the College should be factors in this
consideration. Short-term swings in the market value of invested assets should not be a
factor.
The timeline for spending policy decisions and calculations are as follows:
 Endowment balances as of June 30th for Years 1-3 are used to calculate the
three year average for the spending policy in the fiscal year ending June 30th of
Year 4
 At the April, Year 3 meeting the Board of Trustees, based on the Investment
Committee recommendation, will set the spending policy rate for the year ending
June 30th of Year 4<<<SECTION>>> Asset Allocation:
The endowment will be divided into three broad asset classes: equity fund, fixedincome fund, and cash or near-cash fund. The purpose of dividing the endowment fund
in this way is to ensure that the optimal long-term return is achieved given the College’s
risk preference. The endowment will be diversified both by asset class (equity, fixed
income, and cash) and within asset class (large capitalization stocks, small capitalization
stocks, treasury bonds, corporate bonds, etc). The purpose of diversification is to105
provide
reasonable assurance that no single security or class of securities will have a

disproportionate impact on the total endowment and to reduce the overall risk and
volatility of the entire portfolio.
The Investment Committee will annually review, confirm or change the allocations
among the asset classes. The Vice President for Finance with advice from investment
managers and consultants has discretion to make decisions regarding investments within
each asset class, so long as the guidelines specified in this policy are followed. Rebalancing
the allocations will take place annually. Unusual growth or declines in a particular market
segment will necessarily alter the initial allocation. The Investment Committee may elect to
direct the selling of one asset to purchase another in order to rebalance the portfolio, it may
alter the target allocations to reflect the current market values of the assets, or it may do a
combination of rebalancing and reallocation. Rebalancing of the portfolio may be
conducted over a period of time, so as to minimize the risk of a large movement of funds
in or out of a particular market. The Vice President for Finance is responsible for providing
data related to current and past market performance and expected returns.<<<SECTION>>> Equity Investments:
The purpose of equity investments is to provide appreciation of principal that
significantly exceeds inflation and some current income, recognizing that this requires the
assumption of greater market variability and risk. Equity investments will primarily consist
of U.S. common stocks, but may also include funds (or ADRs) of non-U.S. stocks and
venture or private placements. The investment objective for the total equity fund will be
to match or exceed the Russell 3000 stock index. The preferred investment vehicle for
equity investments will be indexed mutual funds, especially for larger and midcapitalization U.S. stocks.
Individual investments or sub-funds within the equity fund will be compared against the
appropriate index for that particular asset type (Large Cap U.S. Stocks: S&P 500, Small
Cap U.S. Stocks: Russell 2000, etc).<<<SECTION>>> Fixed Income Investments:
The purpose of fixed income investments is to provide a highly predictable and
dependable source of current income and reduce the volatility of the total portfolio
market value. Fixed income investments will primarily consist of U.S. government
obligations, but may also include corporate bonds; non-U.S. fixed income investments,
and preferred stocks. The investment objective for the total fixed income fund will be to
match or exceed the Lehman Intermediate Government/Corporate Bond Index. The
preferred investment vehicle for fixed income investments will be indexed mutual funds,
especially for U.S. Treasury securities or A-rated (S&P rating) or higher corporate bonds.
Individual investments or sub-funds within the fixed income fund will be compared
against the appropriate index for that particular asset type.<<<SECTION>>> Cash and “Near Cash” Investments:
The purpose of cash investments is to provide liquidity for asset rebalancing,
provide a short term investment vehicle for gifts awaiting integration into the utilized
pool, and to provide liquidity for endowment spending. Cash investments will generally
consist of commercial money market instruments, but may also consist of short-term
certificates of deposit and short term U.S. Treasury
securities. The investment objective for the cash fund will be to match or exceed the
Salomon Smith Barney three month Treasury Bill Index.
106
<<<SECTION>>> Monitoring of Results:
The total endowment will be monitored on a continual basis for consistency
of investment philosophy, return relative to objectives, and asset allocation with
respect to target percentages.
Investment managers will report the following information on a monthly basis:
total return net of fees, additions and withdrawals from the account, current holdings at
cost and market value, and purchases and sales for the month. Annually, the Vice
President for Finance will present a comprehensive review of the endowment.<<<SECTION>>>

MBS Book Vouchers:
A student can receive a bookstore voucher if he/she has a credit balance on their student
account. This is determined after the Financial Aid Office has entered the aid on each students
account. The voucher will be in the amount of their credit; unless they have a large balance. If
that is the case they will receive a $1,000 maximum voucher. If they use all the $1,000 and still
have a credit balance, another voucher can be prepared.
If a student would like to put money on the student’s account in exchange for a voucher
they can do so. The Business Office can collect the money for this, and the information for the
voucher will sent to MBS Direct.
After Andrew College receives the invoices from MBS Direct, the charges will be put on
each student’s account. The charge for the vouchers and all other charges and credits will be
added on the student’s account. If it results in the student having a credit, refund checks will be
issued.
<<<SECTION>>>

Fixed Assets and Real Estate:
1. All fixed assets (plant, property, equipment, and grounds) with a value in excess of $5,000
and a useful life of at least three years will be held in the plant fund. All capital
improvements in excess of $5,000 in value and with a useful life of at least three years will
be capitalized and accounted for in the Plant Fund. For the purposes of this policy, the
value of individual items will be used to determine fixed asset status. Items purchased
together will not be considered a single item, unless it is logical or practical to consider the
group as a single fixed asset.
2. The asset and liability value of capital leases will be held in the plant fund. Typically,
current operating funds will pay the lease payments and the resulting changes in liability
value will be reflected in the plant fund. The purchase value of a capital lease item will be
recorded in the plant fund and depreciated based on the date the item is physically in the
College’s possession. A lease is only considered a capital lease if the residual value is
significantly less than the fair market value of the item at the end of the lease. One-dollar
buyout leases will always be considered capital leases providing they exceed asset value of
$5,000.
Leases with fair market buyout or residuals will be treated as rentals and will not be
capitalized.
3. All real estate donated to, or purchased by the College will be treated as plant property if
it is donated or purchased strictly for its investment value. In general, Plant Fund real
estate will be property used in an ongoing basis to support the College programs. All
investment real estate will be sold as soon as practical. Real estate will only be held as an
endowment asset when it is in the College’s financial interest to do so or when restrictions
made by the donor require the property to be held for a long term
107
4. In most cases, routine maintenance and repair costs for plant fund assets will be

expensed in the Current Fund. Major repair costs, approved by the Board of Trustees
may be funded by donation revenue to the Plant or Restricted Funds. Rental income
from Plant Fund assets will be accounted for as Current Fund revenue and will offset
maintenance and repair expenses
5. Fixed assets will be depreciated according to the following guidelines:
 Real estate (land) will not be depreciated
 Buildings – 30 years
 Equipment – 5 years
 Vehicles – 5 years
 Grounds – 10 years
 Improvements – based on the estimated useful life
These guidelines may be modified at the discretion of the Vice President for Finance.
All depreciation will be straight line. Items acquired in the fiscal year will be depreciated
for a full year.<<<SECTION>>>

Risk Management:
It is the responsibility of the Vice President for Finance to insure that the College is
covered by adequate liability insurance. The College will contract with an insurance organization
to meet its liability needs. Currently, EIIA (Educational & Institutional Insurance Administrators,
Inc.) is that organization. EIIA specializes in covering private institutions of higher education,
especially those affiliated with the United Methodist Church.
The areas covered by EIIA are:
 Workers Compensation
 General Liability
 Sexual Misconduct Liability
 Auto Liability and Auto Physical Damage
 Property Claims
 Boiler and Machinery
 Environmental/Pollution
 Employee/Dishonest/Crime
 IT Network/Privacy Liability
 Non-Owned Aircraft Liability
 Special Events Liability
 Directors & Officers/Educators Legal Liability
 Foreign Liability
 Catastrophic Business Interruption
 Underground Storage Tanks
 Crisis Response and Media Assistance
EIIA has policies with various insurance carriers for each of the above areas.
They continuously review the prices paid to those carriers and look for the best possible policy
given by them.
The Vice President for Finance reviews the annual fee paid to the insurance organization.
108
He/she also reviews changes to the various policies and keeps appraised with noteworthy local,

national and world events and the effects on the College’s well-being. In addition, the Vice
President for Finance and Controller are responsible for annually maintaining the College’s list of
buildings and valuable equipment kept by EIIA. This list includes any artistic or musical
properties that have a material value.
Any coordination between the College’s legal counsel and EIIA is coordinated through
the Vice President for Finance. If the College is being sued or is informed it could be sued, it is
imperative for the Vice President for Finance to work with legal counsel and EIIA to insure
that the College remains covered by its liability insurance.
EIIA also covers Andrew College for injury to students. The Athletic Trainer reviews all
claims and works with EIIA to properly handle those instances. If it appears that the College
could be liable for a student injury, the Athletic Trainer should inform the Vice President for
Finance of this possibility.<<<SECTION>>>

Automated Clearing House (ACH) and Electronic Fund Transfer (EFT) Policy:
Summary and Purpose of Policy- The President has appointed and designated the Vice
President of Finance to oversee the business operations of the institution, of which includes the
development of policies and procedures critical to protecting the assets and integrity of the
Institution.
As part of this on-going process, executive management shall write and enforce business
operation and accounting policies relevant to Automated Clearing House (ACH) and Electronic
Fund Transfer (EFT) transactions. The Vice President of Finance shall designate and assign
certain duties to business office personnel tasked with the responsibility for ensuring that fiscal
financial resources and data are continually protected and monitored against ACH and EFT fraud
and other potential threats to the financial data security of the institution.
This policy describes the institutional policy, process, and responsibilities of the designated
and approvers, preparers, and monitors. It is a means of Prevention Controls and Detection
Controls. This policy includes both incoming and outgoing ACH and EFT transactions. A
minimum of two persons will be involved in all ACH and EFT transactions to create more
visibility and integrity of the processes and controls and to segregate approving from processing.

ACH and EFT Controls and Responsibilities:
(1) The Vice President of Finance shall have oversight for designating business office personnel which
are permitted to approve, process, and monitor ACH and EFT activity relevant to their assigned
role within the business office.
(2) The Vice President of Finance shall designate a minimum of two people to be responsible for the
approval and scheduling of each outgoing ACH and EFT transaction.
(3) The Vice President of Finance shall designate a minimum of two people to be responsible for
monitoring all ACH and EFT activity on a daily basis and to be reconciled with the general ledger
activity for each cash account.
(4) The Vice President of Finance in coordination with the Institution’s banks and creditors shall
assign Login Identification and Passwords which require multi-factor authentication at banking
institution Login. Assigned personnel will be required to change the passwords periodically and to
use tokens and/or key fobs to authenticate identity at Login. Tokens, Key fobs, Login IDs, and
Passwords shall NOT be shared with others and are to remain kept in a secure location or with the
assigned person at all times.
109

(5) The Vice President of Finance shall set dollar limits for ACH and EFT transactions for which each
assignee is permitted to approve or schedule.
(6) All proposed and executed ACH and EFT are to be documented in writing and/or digital record at
the time of processing and scheduling. The assigned person and the approver must both mark the
record approved and processed with their signature/mark and the date signed. ACH and EFT are
NOT permitted through email. Phone call ACH or EFT is rarely to be used and only permitted
when the source is a known and trusted source and approved by the designed approver or
determined necessary by the VP of Finance.
(7) Executed ACH and EFT bank transactions shall be reconciled to the general ledger cash accounts
on a daily basis by designated personnel.
(8) Incoming ACH and EFT bank transactions shall be monitored, reviewed, approved, and processed
to the general ledger when authenticated by two or more designated persons.
(9) Any unknown incoming or outgoing ACH and EFT bank transactions will be researched internally
and reported to the Vice President of Finance if the source is not known or suspicious in nature.
A follow-up contact will be done with the banking institution to resolve any discrepancies
discovered by the business office staff.

110

Section 9.0

Academic Policies<<<SECTION>>>

Academic Advising:
Degree seeking students are assigned a faculty advisor. The faculty advisor assists
the students in all matters relating to their academic progress. The students must always
consult their advisors before making course changes, and the advisor must sign all course
change forms.
Students are encouraged to declare a program of study upon enrolling at the
College. By the end of their first semester, all degree seeking students are required to
declare a program of study through their advisors, who will forward that information to
the registrar’s office. This will assist the registrar in assigning each student a faculty
advisor with experience in the chosen area of study.
Academic advising is a critically important part of the faculty’s responsibility.
Each full-time faculty member is expected to serve as an academic advisor to students.
So far as possible, the registrar will assign an equal number of students to each faculty
advisor and will, whenever possible, assign advisees according to their declared plan of
study.
The College expects that a close working relationship will develop between the
advisor and advisee in order to facilitate wise academic decisions, to further the student's
academic development, and to give the student a sense of belonging. The faculty advisor
assists the students in all matters relating to their academic progress. The advisor must
sign all course change forms. Confidential student information is available to advisors
through the Empower campus management system.
More information on the faculty responsibility of academic advising may be
found in the Academic Mentoring Guidebook.
<<<SECTION>>>

Academic Assistance:
Andrew College provides academic assistance to students needing help with their
course work. Students may be assigned to a required class by the Enrollment
Management Committee, Dean of Academic Affairs, academic advisor, or by his/her
own request. Additionally, professional and peer tutoring is available to all students and
the hours are distributed each semester.
<<<SECTION>>>

Academic Discipline:
The responsibility for academic discipline resides with the faculty. The authority
to act administratively is vested with the Dean of Academic Affairs. Disciplinary action
may be taken when it is confirmed that a student has violated established academic policy
of the College. Violations include, but are not limited to those listed in the academic
irregularity section of the Andrew College Catalog, class attendance policies and/or
academic contracts. Violations involving class work or behavior will be handled
administratively by the faculty member. Sanctions at this level are limited to classroom
participation and/or class grades. A hearing before the Dean of Academic Affairs will be
conducted when the violation is serious enough for the sanctions to extend beyond the

111

classroom. The decision of this hearing may be appealed to the Academic Appeals
Committee.<<<SECTION>>>

Academic Ethics:
Andrew College endorses the statement on Professional Ethics as set forth in the
AAUP Policy and Documents Report (2004). The College confidently expects all faculty
members will scrupulously adhere to these standards.
Professors, guided by a deep conviction of the worth and dignity of the
advancement of knowledge, recognize the special responsibilities placed upon them.
Their primary responsibility to their subject is to seek and to state the truth as they see it.
To this end professors devote their energies to developing and improving their scholarly
competence. They accept the obligation to exercise critical self-discipline and judgment
in using, extending, and transmitting knowledge. They practice intellectual honesty.
Although professors may follow subsidiary interests, these interests must never seriously
hamper or compromise their freedom of inquiry.
As teachers, professors encourage the free pursuit of learning in their
students. They hold before them the best scholarly and ethical standards of
their discipline. Professors demonstrate respect for students as individuals
and adhere to their proper roles as intellectual guides and counselors.
Professors make every reasonable effort to foster honest academic conduct
and to ensure that their evaluations of students reflect each student’s true
merit. They respect the confidential nature of the relationship between
professor and student. They avoid any exploitation, harassment, or
discriminatory treatment of students. They acknowledge significant academic
or scholarly assistance from them. They protect their academic freedom.
As colleagues, professors have obligations that derive from common
membership in the community of scholars. Professors do not discriminate
against or harass colleagues. They respect and defend the free inquiry of
associates. In the exchange of criticism and ideas professors show due
respect for the opinions of others. Professors acknowledge academic debt
and strive to be objective in their professional judgment of colleagues.
Professors accept their share of faculty responsibilities for the governance of
their institution.
As members of an academic institution, professors seek above all to
be effective teachers and scholars. Although professors observe the stated
regulations of the institution, provided the regulations do not contravene
academic freedom, they maintain their right to criticize and seek revision.
Professors give due regard to their paramount responsibilities within their
institution in determining the amount and character of work done outside it.
When considering the interruption or termination of their service, professors
recognize the effect of their decision upon the program of the institution and
give due notice of their intentions.
As members of their community, professors have the rights and obligations of
other citizens. Professor measure the urgency of these obligations in the light of their
112

responsibilities to their subject, to their students, to their profession, and to their
institution. When they speak or act as private persons, they avoid creating the impression
of speaking or acting for their college or university. As citizens engaged in a profession
that depends upon freedom for its health and integrity, professors have a particular
obligation to promote conditions of free inquiry and to further public understanding of
academic freedom.<<<SECTION>>>

Academic Irregularity:
1. Without authorization from the instructor no student shall receive or give
assistance in the preparation of an essay, laboratory report, examination, or other
assignment.
2. No student shall take or attempt to take, steal, or otherwise procure in an
unauthorized manner, any material pertaining to the conduct of a class, including
but not limited to tests, laboratory and P.E. equipment, roll books, and library
materials and equipment.
3. Without authorization from the instructor, no student shall sell, give, lend or
otherwise furnish to any unauthorized person, material that can be shown to
contain the questions or answers to any examination scheduled to be given at any
date, in any course of study offered by the college.
4. Plagiarism is prohibited. Themes, essays, term papers, tests, and other similar
required work must be the work of the student submitting them. When direct
quotations or the ideas of another are incorporated in a paper, they must be
appropriately marked and documented.
The penalties for infractions against the Honor Code are as follows:
1. Academic Irregularity
 First offense in any course: The student will receive a failing grade of
zero for the assignment or test, and a written report of the offense will
be filed with the Academic Dean.
 Second or subsequent offenses in any course: The student will receive a
failing grade of zero for the assignment or test, and a written report of the
offense will be filed with the Academic Dean. In addition, the student
may: 1) receive a WF in the course, 2) be suspended academically, and 3)
be expelled from the College.

2.

**Violations are documented over the students’ entire duration of
enrollment at Andrew College.
Attendance
 Excessive absences or tardies, as defined by the professor in accordance
with the Andrew College Attendance Policy, will result in administrative
withdrawal from the course with a grade of WF.

The faculty member will report any academic irregularity violation in writing to
the Dean of Academic Affairs. Penalties for academic irregularity are outlined in the
Andrew College Honor Code and administered by the Dean of Academic Affairs.<<<SECTION>>>

Andrew College Honor Code:
In accordance with its Mission and Philosophy, Andrew College requires that all
members of the College community exhibit personal integrity and responsibility.113
Further, Andrew College holds that conscious attention to personal and academic

honesty is vital for a student’s capacity for academic success and for intellectual, social,
and spiritual development.
Andrew College, therefore, adopts the following Honor Code:
1. Students will conduct themselves with the highest level of academic integrity and
honesty and will also accept the responsibility of encouraging and assisting their
fellow students in upholding the Honor Code of Andrew College
2. Students will read, understand, and abide by the Andrew College statement on
Academic Irregularity as stated in the Andrew College Catalog
3. Students will abide by the Class Attendance Policy at Andrew College through
regular and punctual attendance in all of classes
4. Students will acknowledge and respect both the authority of professors pertaining
to all academic and management matters regarding their courses and the rights of
their fellow classmates concerning their own academic pursuits, and will act
respectfully toward their professors and classmates at all times
5. Students will be subject to penalties for infractions against the Andrew College
Honor Code
All Andrew College students will be required to read the Honor Code and sign
the Honor Pledge during the first week of classes of their first semester at Andrew
College. In most cases, this will take place in the Freshman Experience course, during
which the Honor Code and Honor Pledge will be discussed. In the event that a student is
not enrolled in Freshman Experience, the Academic Affairs Office will make
arrangements for the student to read the Honor Code and sign the Honor Pledge during
the first week of the semester. However, students who do not sign the Honor Pledge are
not exempt from adhering to the Andrew College Honor Code. The signed Honor
Pledges will be kept in the students’ files in the Academic Affairs Office.
1. Uncivil Classroom Behavior:
 First offense: In the event that the offense cannot be resolved with a
verbal reprimand, the professor will ask the student to leave the class.
The student will receive an absence for that class session, and the
professor will report the incident, in writing, to the Dean of Academic
Affairs
 Second offense: The professor will immediately ask the student to
leave the class. The student will receive an absence for that class
session, and the professor will report the incident, in writing, to the
Dean of Academic Affairs. The student will be allowed to return to
the class only with permission of the Dean of Academic Affairs. The
Dean of Academic Affairs will determine whether the student may
return to class immediately, at the next class meeting, or after an
appropriate suspension
 Subsequent offenses: The professor will immediately ask the student
to leave the class. The student will receive an absence for that class
session, and the professor will report the incident, in writing, to the
Dean of Academic Affairs. This infraction will result in a suspension
for a few days, the remainder of the semester, a full semester, or in
exclusion from Andrew College, as determined by the Dean of
Academic Affairs
114
<<<SECTION>>>

Athletic Travel Policy:<<<SECTION>>> Only team members whose names appear on the NJCAA eligibility form
submitted by the Athletic Director are permitted to travel with the team.<<<SECTION>>> Two student managers, designated by the coach of the team and with the
approval of the Athletic Director, may travel with the team with all the privileges
accorded to a team member, providing the student managers have at least a 2.0
cumulative GPA.<<<SECTION>>> Only students described in the above two categories will have expenses paid by
the College.
<<<SECTION>>>

Class Attendance Policy:
Andrew College believes that class attendance is a necessary part of the learning
experience. The classroom enriches the learning experience through the collective
interaction of peers and professor. Therefore, the policy of the College is that students
must attend all their classes. There are neither “free cuts” nor excused absences.
The responsibility of handling absences rests entirely with the faculty member.
All instructors will, at the beginning of each semester, make a clear statement to each of
their classes regarding their policies in handling absences. The statement should be
included in the course syllabus. Instructors are expected to maintain records of class
attendance. On the first day of class, instructors begin recording absences for all
students, including students who register late.
The College recognizes that students may be compelled to miss a class due to
illness, death in the immediate family, or College sponsored events. When students are
absent for these reasons, they may be allowed to make up assignments. When students
are compelled for any reason to be absent from class, they should immediately convey the
reason for the absence directly to the instructor.
Absences may not exceed 20 percent of the class sessions in any one course. A
student who exceeds the maximum absences will be administratively withdrawn from
class and receive a grade of WF in the course. The only exception will be by vote of the
faculty in case of prolonged illness.
Students should not be allowed to attend class until their names are officially
listed on the class roll. Class rolls may be viewed by individual faculty members through
the Empower student information management system.
<<<SECTION>>>

Final Examinations:
Final examinations are scheduled by the Dean of Academic Affairs and are to be
given as scheduled. The request for an early final examination must originate with the
faculty member(s) involved. The faculty should discourage students requesting an early
final examination. However, when a faculty member is convinced that a student has a
legitimate reason for such a request, the faculty member should initiate the following
sequence of actions:
115

1. The faculty member should tell the student to put the request and the reason in
writing, along with the names of all the student's instructors
2. The faculty member should forward the written request with a short written
faculty recommendation to the Dean of Academic Affairs
3. The Dean of Academic Affairs will either approve or deny the request. If the
decision is to deny, the Dean of Academic Affairs will then decide whether to
offer the student the option of taking an incomplete (I) in the course<<<SECTION>>>

Field Trip Activities:
Faculty members who direct field trips are responsible for completing an Event
Planning Form. The Event Planning Form must have the signature of the Dean of Academic
Affairs and Dean of Student Affairs. The form should be on file no later than three days
before the scheduled date of the trip.
It is the duty of the faculty sponsor to communicate to all trip participants that
campus regulations apply at any time that they are part of a college organized, off-campus
activity. Faculty members are expected to exercise decorum and to serve as role models
for students. They should be sensitive to appearances and should never condone
behavior that jeopardizes the reputation of the college or of the students under their
supervision. Any serious infraction of college policy should be reported immediately to
the appropriate college administrator. The faculty member should impress upon students
that inappropriate behavior on a field trip could result in sanctions, including dismissal
from the College.
<<<SECTION>>>

Grading Policies:
The following grading scale will apply across the entire academic program:
A Superior
90 - 100
B Above Average 80 - 89
C Average
70 - 79
D Below Average 60 - 69
F Failure
0 - 59
W (WITHDREW) This symbol indicates that a student was permitted to withdraw from
college without penalty. The withdrawal must occur before the end of the midterm period. After that date, a grade of WP or WF must be assigned by the
instructor at the time of withdrawal. A grade of W does not affect GPA.
WP*

(WITHDREW PASSING) This symbol indicates a student was permitted to
withdraw from a course after mid-term and was passing at the time of the
withdrawal. A grade of WP does not affect GPA.

S

(SATISFACTORY) This symbol is assigned for satisfactory performance in a
Cultural Enrichment learning activity. The symbol S followed by a number (i.e.,
S1, S2, S3...) indicates the number of CEP credits earned.

U

(UNSATISFACTORY) This symbol is assigned for unsatisfactory performance
in a Cultural Enrichment learning activity. NOTE: During 2010/2011, this
symbol was assigned for unsatisfactory performance in a Learning Support
course and indicated credit has not been earned. The “U” is no longer used as a
grade assigned for Learning Support classes.
116

WF* (WITHDREW FAILING) This symbol indicates that a student withdrew from a
course after the drop/add period. A grade of WF affects GPA in the same way as
a grade of F.
V

(INCOMPLETE) This symbol indicates that a student was unable to complete a
course for non-academic reasons acceptable to the Dean of Academic Affairs.
Permission of the Dean of Academic Affairs must be obtained before an "I" is
recorded. All work necessary to remove the grade of incomplete must be
completed by mid-term of the succeeding semester. Failure to complete by midterm of the succeeding semester will result in a grade of "F" in the course.

IP

(IN PROGRESS) This symbol indicates that a student is making progress in a
course but needs additional work to complete the course requirements and must
re-enroll in the course.

K

(CREDIT BY EXAMINATION) This symbol indicates credit for a course
earned by taking an examination (for example, CLEP).

*A student cannot withdraw from a class after final examinations begin.
Incomplete Grades:
Permission of the Dean of Academic Affairs must be obtained before an "I" is
recorded. All work necessary to remove the grade of incomplete must be completed by
the beginning mid-term of the succeeding semester. Failure to complete by the mid-term
of the succeeding semester will result in a grade of "F" in the course.
Grade Appeals:
Faculty members have the authority to grade student work and to assign
grades; these are academic judgments. A faculty member’s syllabus enumerates
student academic performance expectations and consequences. Faculty members
render academic judgments when a student’s academic performance violates
established standards or fails to meet stated expectations. Academic judgments, made
by faculty, are based on academic content, course requirements, and student
performance. Students may not appeal grades based on allegations concerning the
competence of a faculty member, the fairness of examinations, the difficulty of a
course, or other matters of a purely academic nature. Grades for individual
assignments and exams may not be applied. While it is recognized that faculty hold
the right and responsibility to grant a grade, a student who receives a course grade
that he or she believes to be unwarranted for reasons other than those listed above
may appeal that grade using these stated procedures.
Step 1. Within the first four weeks after the award of the grade in question,
the student should have informally appealed the grade to the instructor. If that
instructor is not teaching at Andrew College during the term following issuance
of the grade, the student will make contact with the instructor through the
Division Coordinator to informally appeal the grade.
Step 2. If the issue is not resolved at this informal level and the student wishes
to pursue the appeal, the student shall request in writing a meeting with the
respective Division Coordinator. This request shall be addressed to the
117
Division Coordinator and shall be received no later than five weeks of

instruction into term or semester following issuance of the grade. The request
must summarize the student’s complaint and the student’s informal appeal to
the instructor.
Step 3. Within two weeks of receipt of the request, the Division Coordinator
shall discuss the appeal with the student and with the instructor, separately or
at the same time. If the Division Coordinator upholds the decision, the matter
is closed. The decision is final.
Step 4. If the Division Coordinator does not support the decision of the
instructor, the matter shall be appealed within two weeks of the Division
Coordinator’s decision to the Dean of Academic Affairs. The Division
Coordinator will forward the appeal package to Office of Academic Affairs.
The Dean of Academic Affairs will empanel three full-time faculty members as
an ad hoc Academic Appeals Council to review the matter. The decision of this
council shall be final and binding on all parties.
Note: Students may not use this procedure to appeal grades resulting from violations of
Academic Honor Code.<<<SECTION>>>

Independent Study Courses:
A faculty member at his/her discretion may agree to provide a student with an
independent study, with final approval granted by the Dean of Academic Affairs.
Independent study should be given infrequently. There is no monetary compensation for
independent study.
<<<SECTION>>>

Student Academic Grievance:
A student who has an academic grievance shall meet with the faculty member in
an attempt to resolve the issue. If a satisfactory resolution cannot be reached, the student
shall report the grievance and the result of the meeting with the faculty member, either
orally or in writing to the Division Coordinator. If the Division Coordinator is unable to
resolve the situation between the student and faculty member, then the student will be
requested to write a formal letter to the Dean of Academic Affairs who will then appoint
a committee consisting of the Division Coordinator and the student’s advisor and will be
chaired by the Dean of Academic Affairs. If one of the regular committee members is
involved in the grievance, another appropriate faculty member will be appointed. If the
Dean of Academic Affairs is included in the grievance, the student should report the
grievance to the President.
<<<SECTION>>>

Student Employment:
Students assigned to scholarships or work-study assisting a faculty member are
under the direction and supervision of that faculty member. An accurate record of the
hours worked must be kept and approved by the supervisor, and reported to the financial
aid officer.
<<<SECTION>>>

Student Records:
The Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 (FERPA) (Public Law
93-380-513) prohibits the dissemination of certain categories of information from student
records without student consent. Faculty may not discuss and provide information
regarding a student’s academic performance, including grades, with the student’s118
parent(s)
or legal guardian.

All educational records are on file in the Registrar’s office and may be released
only to those persons who have been determined by the College to have a legitimate
educational interest in the student. The College designates the following as public or
"Directory Information:” The student's name, home address, program of study, degree
sought, expected date of completion of degree requirements and graduation, degrees and
awards received, dates of attendance, full or part time enrollment status, the previous
educational agency or institution attended, participation in officially recognized activities
and sports, weight and height of athletic team members, and other similar information.
Students may restrict the release of "Directory Information," except to school officials
and agencies with legitimate educational interests. To do so, a student must make the
request in writing to the Registrar’s office, 501 College Street, Cuthbert, Georgia 39840.
Once filed, this request becomes a permanent part of the student's record until the
student instructs the Registrar, in writing, to have the request removed.
The Registrar of Andrew College is the designated official responsible for
controlling access and disclosure of student records. Anyone requesting access to a
student's record from the Registrar must sign an access request, the reason for the
request, and the date of the request. The Registrar must initial the request.<<<SECTION>>>

Textbooks:
MBS Direct is the College’s textbook service provider. MBS Direct provides
Andrew College all aspects of the ordering, selling and buy back of texts to the student
body and college community.
Faculty must place textbook orders eight weeks prior to the start of each semester
by submission to the Bursar (See Appendix 3 – Book Adoption Form. If needed,
adoption approvals will be given by the Dean of Academic Affairs through a review
process that considers the needs of the faculty member, MBS Direct inventory, and
availability of old/new texts. Textbooks for courses taught by various adjunct faculty may
be made in consultation with the respective Division Coordinator and/or Dean of
Academic Affairs.
The faculty member must be made aware of the shelf cost (student cost) of the
text(s) selected for a course during the selection process. The faculty member will identify
the text as "required" or "optional," and that designation will not be changed after a class
begins without the approval of the Dean of Academic Affairs.
A textbook should be adopted for a three year period. The faculty member will take
into account the next planned edition of the text and any available information related to
its continued desirability as a text.
Instructor’s copy of textbooks should be requested by the instructor directly from
the publisher. If an instructor copy cannot be obtained via the publisher, the professor
may purchase a copy from MBS Direct and charge the cost to their respective
departmental budget.
<<<SECTION>>>

Awarding of Credits:
The following policies are established to ensure that all credit recorded on the
institution’s transcripts are at the collegiate level and comparable to courses offered
119 by
Andrew College.
<<<SECTION>>> Credit Hour Definition Policy:
Andrew College uses the Carnegie standard to determine the appropriate
amount of credit awarded for undergraduate course work. Credits are awarded as
semester hours.
A semester credit hour will be awarded as follows:
 Lecture, seminar, and recitation courses: A minimum of 750 minutes of
instruction (excluding final examinations), with a minimum of 1500
minutes of out-of-class work
 Laboratory, studio courses, and activity courses: A minimum of 1500 minutes of
instruction (excluding final examinations), with a minimum of 750
minutes of out-of-class work; or a minimum of 2250 minutes of
instruction (excluding final examinations)
 Supervised independent studies, individual studio, or private lessons: The amount of
effort required for one hour of undergraduate credit is determined by the
supervising faculty and division coordinator in which the credit is
awarded. Instructors should make adjustments so that the total hours of
work required by students is equivalent to that of a traditional class<<<SECTION>>> Credit for Courses Taken at Other Institutions:
Students who have studied at another institution may apply for transfer to
Andrew College. Credit is only granted for coursework taken at institutions that
are fully accredited by a Federal Department of Education regional accrediting
agency. Andrew College accepts credit hours earned at another institution only if
those courses are completed with a grade equivalent to a “C” or higher unless that
credit is transferred with a bachelor’s or associate degree from another regionally
accredited institution. Students who have completed a two-year degree
designated as transferable to a four-year degree may enter Andrew College with
their Core Curriculum requirements fulfilled, with the restriction that courses
meeting Andrew College’s Area A requirement received a grade equivalent to “C”
or higher. Students who earn credit on a satisfactory / unsatisfactory basis may
not transfer those credits unless documentation is received stating that the grade
is equivalent to a “C” or higher. Andrew College does not award credit for
experiential learning or other non-academic courses.
Students pursuing the Associates Degree in Nursing may only transfer
core curriculum classes, as per Andrew College transfer credit policy. Nursing
classes are not transferable.
Courses deemed equivalent to Andrew College courses will be assigned an
Andrew College course prefix and number. Courses accepted for transfer with no
Andrew College equivalent may be accepted as elective credit and assigned an
appropriate course prefix and number, as determined by the appropriate academic
division or in accordance with articulation agreements between Andrew College
and another regionally accredited degree-granting institution.
Advanced Placement (AP) and College Level Examination Program
120
(CLAEP) credits listed on the transcripts of previously attended colleges will be

accepted for credit provided all other transfer credit restrictions apply.
Transfer credits are not used in the calculation of graduation GPA
requirements. Students must complete a minimum of 25% of credit hours
required for the undergraduate degree program at Andrew College.
Transfer of credit from a technical school will be awarded in accordance
with the Board of Regents articulation agreement with the Technical College
System of Georgia and current articulation agreements with Andrew College.
Technical credits form a regionally accredited institution that fall outside of the
Georgia Board of Regents-Technical College System of Georgia articulation
agreement and specific articulation agreements between Andrew College and
other colleges may be accepted on a course-by-course basis after the student
provides the appropriate documentation for evaluation by the registrar and
discipline faculty.
The final decisions for transferring courses and credit hours to Andrew
College are made by the Registrar in consultation with the discipline faculty and
the Dean of Academic Affairs. Applicants who have previously attended colleges
or universities must submit official transcripts from all previous post-secondary
institutions, whether credit was earned or not.<<<SECTION>>> Credit for Experiential Learning:
Andrew College does not award credit for experiential learning.<<<SECTION>>> Credit by Examination:
Andrew College awards credit by examination for the following tests
provided the subject is offered in the general curriculum of the College:
1. Advanced Placement Examination (APE) offered by the College Board.
Credit awarded based on score of three or above
2. College Level Examination Program (CLEP) with the exception of
Biology, Chemistry, and Western Civilization. Applications to take
specific CLEP exams must be made by the end of the first full month of a
student’s initial semester of attendance. Fees must be paid upon
application. Credit awarded is based on ACE recommended scores
3. Defense Activity for Non-Traditional Education Support (DANTES)
subject standardized tests. Credit is awarded based on the ACE
recommended scores.
4. Andrew College will occasionally offer proficiency exams as a way to earn
credit by examination. Currently enrolled students may take the
proficiency exam for credit rather than taking the course. This option
may not be used to earn credit for a course previously completed and a
grade the equivalent of a “C” or above must be attained on the exam to
receive credit for the course.
A student may earn a maximum of 24 semester hours of credit by
examination with no more than six semester hours in any one subject area. Credit
by examination is not computed in the student's grade point average. Credit
121
earned by examination is assigned a grade of "K" on the Andrew College
transcript.

Section 10.0

Personnel Policies<<<SECTION>>>

Benefits:<<<SECTION>>> College Store and Dining Facilities:
All employees are given a 10% discount on non-book purchases in the
College store and a discount on meals in the dining hall and deli. Meal ticket
plans are available for purchase in Turner Dining Hall. Please see one of the food
service staff to purchase your meal ticket.<<<SECTION>>> Cafeteria (125) Plan:
All full-time employees are eligible to participate in the cafeteria plan
established by the College. Participation in the plan is defined and limited by the
regulations of the plan. The purpose and benefit of the program is to enable
persons to pay certain medical-related, dependent-care and certain group
insurance premium expenses with pre-tax dollars, resulting in a net savings. Entry
into this plan is limited to specific periods.
The plan effective date, for new employees, is the first day of the calendar
month following one full calendar month of employment. New and current
employees may enroll or waive participation in the plan, for the ensuring calendar
year (January - December), during the Enrollment Period (generally, mid-October
- late November). For additional information, please see the Director of
Human Resources or Controller.<<<SECTION>>> College-Owned Housing:
Andrew College has a limited amount of College owned housing available
for faculty and staff. Housing assignments are made by the Vice President for
Finance, in consultation with the President, based upon the needs of the College
in its employee recruitment program and are not necessarily on a first-come firstserved basis. The College also reserves the right to place limits on the length of
time that housing will be made available to a particular staff member. Rental
housing is only available to current Andrew College faculty and staff. Sub-rental
of College housing by residents is prohibited. Residence in College housing is
limited to the immediate family of the staff/faculty member.
Residents are required to make rental payment by payroll deduction.
Residents are responsible for any damage to the property during their residency.
Residents are responsible for all utility deposits, payments, termination of service,
etc. unless served under a campus master meter. The Director of Human
Resources will provide the resident with the details. Unless otherwise agreed
upon in the rental agreement, the resident is responsible for maintaining the
ground in a manner which does not reflect unfavorably on the neighborhood and
College. Any resident that will house a pet in College rental property is required
to pay a $250 deposit.

122
<<<SECTION>>> Credit Union:
All full-time employees are eligible for membership in the Georgia’s
Own Credit Union formerly known as DOCO Regional Federal Credit Union.
Services include payroll direct deposits, checking and savings accounts, loans,
online banking, VISA credit cards and ATM cards. Applications are available
online at www.georgiasown.org/doco-credit-union/
Georgia’s Own Credit Union
107 N. Westover Blvd.
Albany, GA 31707
(800) 533-2062<<<SECTION>>> Educational Benefits:<<<SECTION>>> Full-time employees, their spouses and dependents are provided tuition
grants to attend Andrew.<<<SECTION>>> Dependents which meet all acceptance criteria as a student may be
eligible for a grant covering housing fees depending upon space availability as
determined at the beginning of each academic term. Dependents receiving a
housing grant are required to participate in the boarding plan. As defined for this
benefit a dependent is a minor who is claimed as a dependent on the employee’s
federal tax return.<<<SECTION>>> Part-time employees are eligible for the tuition grant, but their spouses
and dependents are not eligible. Tuition grants for a part – time employee is
limited to three credit hours per semester.<<<SECTION>>> If the employee/spouse/dependent enrolls for six hours or more,
he/she is required to complete the free application for Federal Student Aid
(FAFSA). Any grants received by the student will be used to offset the amount of
the tuition/housing grant provided by Andrew College.<<<SECTION>>> Staff members who attend class must do so during non-working hours.
Exceptions to non-working hour class attendance may be made by the staff
member's immediate superior and the Dean of Academic Affairs.<<<SECTION>>> All employees/spouses/dependents applying for admission to Andrew
College must meet the minimum requirements for acceptance. The
Admission/Financial Aid Office can answer additional questions.<<<SECTION>>> Students, who fail to make Satisfactory Academic Progress (SAP) as
defined in the Andrew College catalog, will be ineligible for educational benefits.
Any student receiving educational benefits, which withdraws from any class after
“Add Drop,” may be charged a $100 processing fee.<<<SECTION>>> Group Insurance:<<<SECTION>>> Major Medical Insurance:
123
Full-time employees are eligible to participate in the medical plan

sponsored through the College. Eligibility begins on the first day of the
calendar month following 30 days of active employment. Persons wishing
to participate in this plan should elect to do so within the first 30 days and
are encouraged to do so as soon as work has begun or during the annual
registration window. If election to participate is made after the first 30
days, the insurance company reserves the right to determine insurability of
the person, spouse and dependents and may limit coverage of pre-existing
conditions. We strongly recommend that application be made on or prior
to the first day of work. Details on coverage and costs vary from year to
year and are available from the Director of Human Resources. A standing
committee comprised of selected employees representing a cross section
of medical coverage annually reviews the current and proposed medical
policies. They make a recommendation to the President’s Cabinet
concerning the preferred plan for the upcoming year.<<<SECTION>>> COBRA - (Medical Benefits Continuation):
The federal Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act
(COBRA) gives faculty/staff members and their qualified beneficiaries the
opportunity to continue health insurance coverage under Andrew
College's health plan, when a "qualifying event" would normally result in
the loss of eligibility. Some common qualifying events are resignation,
termination of employment, or death of a faculty/staff member; a
reduction in an employee's hours or a leave of absence; an employee's
divorce or legal separation; and a dependent child no longer meeting
eligibility requirements.
Under COBRA, the staff member or beneficiary pays the full
cost of coverage at Andrew College's group rates plus an administration
fee equal to 2% of the premium.
Andrew College provides each eligible faculty/staff member with
a written notice describing rights granted under COBRA when the staff
member becomes eligible for coverage under Andrew College's health
insurance plan. The notice contains important information about the
employee's rights and obligations.<<<SECTION>>> Dental and Vision Insurance:
Andrew College has available for its full time employees, group
coverage for both Dental and Vision Insurance. Employees pay the entire
amount of the premium for both types of coverage through payroll
deduction.<<<SECTION>>> Life Insurance:
The College provides all full time employees with $30,000 of
term life insurance and $30,000 of accidental death and dismemberment
insurance. All costs are paid by the College. Additional term life
insurance may be purchased by the employee at group rates through
payroll deduction. Coverage for the insurance becomes effective124
on the
first day of the calendar month following 30 days of active employment.

Life insurance benefits may be reduced at age 65 and older based upon the
policies in effect at that time.<<<SECTION>>> Long-term Disability Insurance
The College provides all full time employees with Long-term
disability coverage. All costs are paid by the College.<<<SECTION>>> WellTree On-Call
The College provides all full time employees with WellTree
On-call services which includes: 24/7 access to a doctor by phone or
online video consult, 24/7 access to registered nurses, health advocate to
find providers and assist with medical research, expert negotiators to save
25 – 50% off medical or dental bills as well as online tools and solutions to
help manage health and personal finances at no costs to employees.<<<SECTION>>> Other Insurance:
Through American Family Life Insurance Company (AFLAC), fulltime
employees may purchase other optional insurance coverage (i.e. cancer, shortterm disability) at group rates through payroll deduction.<<<SECTION>>> Recreational Facilities:
As a general rule all recreational facilities are available for the individual use of
employees and their families. Faculty/Staff may have occasional guests whom they must
accompany at all times while using the facilities. The College does reserve the right to
restrict facility use to normal operating hours and to give priority to instructional and
scheduled events. All persons using the College recreational facilities are expected to
comply with College policy and guidelines as may be established by the College.<<<SECTION>>> Retirement Plan:
Full-time employees who have been with the College for two years or new
employees who have two years of full-time service at any institution of higher education
are eligible for this benefit (an eligible employee and years of service are defined in the
Andrew College Defined Contribution Retirement Plan document that can be obtained
from the Director of Human Resources). The College will contribute 2% of the
employee’s base salary into TIAA-CREF providing the employee contributes 2% of their
annual base salary. Please see the Director of Human Resources for an explanation of this
benefit and for copies of the retirement plan documents. Also available is TIAA-CREF’s
supplemental plan for all full-time employees wishing to make contributions before
fulfilling requirements for the Defined Contribution Plan or those wanting to contribute
more than the 2% annual base salary. The College does not match the funds contributed
to the supplemental plan and the College reserves the right to change the percentage the
college will contribute.<<<SECTION>>> Social Security:
Andrew College participates in the Federal Social Security Old Age and
Survivors Insurance Program. The Social Security Administration pays retirement,
disability and survivors benefits to workers and their families and administers the
Supplemental Security Income program.
125

The employee’s contribution (Social Security and Medicare) is specified by the
Federal Social Security Administration and a matching amount is paid by the College.<<<SECTION>>> Tuition Exchange:
Andrew College is a member of the Tuition Exchange Program. This program
makes limited tuition scholarships available to dependents of full-time employees who
wish to enroll at one of the participating institutions. While there are a number of
eligibility requirements and scholarships to a particular school may be limited or
unavailable, all are encouraged to explore this possibility. The Dean of Academic Affairs
can provide additional information and application forms.<<<SECTION>>> Workers’ Compensation Insurance:
Andrew College provides a Statutory Worker’s Compensation insurance
program, at no cost to employees, which may provide medical and income benefits if
you are injured on the job.
Any person who sustains work related injuries or illnesses should inform his/her
supervisor and the College’s Director of Human Resources immediately. No matter how
minor an on-the-job injury may appear, it is important that it be reported immediately
(within 24 hours when possible) to either the Director of Human Resources or Vice
President for Finance. In addition, the employee’s supervisor needs to be informed. The
report will enable an eligible employee to qualify for coverage as quickly as possible.
Neither Andrew College nor the insurance carrier will be liable for the payment
of workers' compensation benefits for injuries that occur during an employee's voluntary
participation in any off-duty recreational, social, or athletic activity sponsored by Andrew
College.<<<SECTION>>> Leave Policies:<<<SECTION>>> Holidays:
Andrew College grants paid holidays to all staff members on the holidays
listed below:
 New Year's Day - January 1st
 Martin Luther King Day – Third Monday in January
 Good Friday - Friday before Easter
 ½ day off Fridays during Summer Schedule
 Memorial Day in May
 Independence Day - July 4th
 Labor Day - First Monday in September
 Thanksgiving - Fourth Thursday in November
 Day after Thanksgiving
 Christmas - Five working days
The Office of Academic Affairs will publish the exact holiday dates at
the beginning of each academic year. Andrew College will grant paid holiday time
to all eligible staff members immediately upon assignment to an eligible
employment classification. Holiday pay will be calculated based on the employee's
pay rate (as of the date of the holiday) times the number of hours the staff
member would otherwise have worked on that day. Eligible staff member
126

classification(s):
 Regular full-time staff members
Andrew College will pay Andrew College Police Officers regular time
and a half pay when they work specific holidays. Those holidays are:
 Memorial Day
 July 4th
 Labor Day
 Thanksgiving
 Christmas
 New Year’s Day<<<SECTION>>> Paid Vacation:
Paid vacation time is awarded to eligible staff members to provide
opportunities for rest, relaxation, and personal pursuits. Regular Full-time Staff
are eligible to earn and use vacation time as described in this policy. Full-time
faculty, adjunct faculty, staff on academic calendar, and part-time employees are
NOT eligible for paid vacation unless stated in their contract.
The amount of paid vacation time staff members receives each year
increases with the length of their employment as shown in the schedule below.
Annual vacation benefits of cabinet level or other senior administrators may differ
from the printed schedule because of their employment agreement.
VACATION ELIGIBILITY SCHEDULE
Years of Eligible Service
Upon initial eligibility to 3 years
4 - 5 years
6 - 7 years
8 - 9 years
After 9 years

Vacation Days Each Year*
10 days (80 hours)
11 days (88 hours)
12 days (96 hours)
13 days (104 hours)
15 days (120 hours)

*Days earned at a rate of 1/12 times annual eligibility per month
Note: Vacation is calculated/utilized by the payroll system using eight hours to equal one day.
The length of eligible service is calculated on the basis of the staff member’s
“benefit year”. This is the 12-month period that begins with the staff member’s date of
employment. Military leave has no effect on this calculation. (See individual leave of
absence policies for more information).
Once staff members enter an eligible employment classification, they begin to
earn paid vacation time according to the schedule.
Paid vacation time can be used in minimum increments of ½ day (four hours).
To take vacation, staff members should request advance approval from their supervisors.
Requests will be reviewed based on a number of factors, including business needs and
staffing requirements. Supervisors are responsible for notifying the Director of Human
Resources of vacation taken.
127

If the total amount of unused vacation time (previous year accruals plus current
year earnings) reaches a "cap" equal to 160 hours (20 days), further vacation accrual will
stop. When the staff member uses paid vacation time and brings the available amount
below the cap, vacation accrual will begin again. For record keeping purposes vacation
amounts “Accrued” and “Used” are adjusted to zero annually, on the staff member’s
anniversary date. Any “Remaining” vacation time is carried over (not to exceed a
maximum of 160 hours “remaining”) to begin a new “benefit year”.
Upon termination of employment, staff members will be paid for unused
vacation time that has been earned through the last day of work (not to exceed ten
days/80 hours).
Staff can take paid vacation only to the extent earned or anticipated to be
earned within the following six months. Staff members should examine their most recent
pay stub to determine the amount of vacation earned and not request more than is earned
or will accrue over the next six months of employment. If a circumstance arises that a staff
member is paid for more vacation than has been earned or will be earned within the
following six months (resulting in a negative balance in the amount of vacation available),
the staff member’s compensation will be reduced by the overpayment in the next pay
period to rebalance the account.<<<SECTION>>> Sick/Personal Leave:
Andrew College provides paid sick/personal leave benefits to all eligible
staff/faculty members for periods of temporary absence due to illnesses, injuries,
or occasional personal business. Eligible staff member classification(s):
 Regular full-time staff members
 Full-time staff on an Academic Calendar
Eligible full-time staff members will accrue sick/personal leave benefits
at the rate of 12 days per year. Sick/personal leave benefits are calculated on the
basis of a "benefit year," the 12-month period that begins when the staff member
starts to earn sick/personal leave benefits.
Paid sick/personal leave can be used in minimum increments of onequarter day (two hours). Eligible staff members may use sick/personal leave
benefits for an absence due to their own illness or injury or that of a family
member who resides in the employee's household or other pressing personal
business which must be transacted during the employee's work schedule.
Staff members who are unable to report to work due to illness or injury
should notify their direct supervisor before the scheduled start of their workday if
possible. The direct supervisor must also be contacted on each additional day of
absence. Supervisors must assure that a completed Sick/Personal Leave Request
Form is submitted to the Director of Human Resources.
Faculty members who are unable to report to work due to illness or
injury should notify the Office of Academic Affairs along with their Division
Coordinator. Faculty Advance Notice of Absence Form or Sick/Personal Leave
Request Form (eligible faculty members only) should be completed and submitted
to the Director of Human Resources.
128

As an additional condition of eligibility for sick/personal leave benefits, a
staff member on an extended absence must apply for any other available
compensation and benefits, such as workers' compensation.
Sick/personal leave benefits will be used to supplement any payments that a staff
member is eligible to receive from state disability insurance, workers' compensation
or Andrew College provided disability insurance programs. The combination of
any such disability payments and sick/personal leave benefits cannot exceed the
employee's normal weekly earnings.
Unused sick/personal leave benefits will be allowed to accumulate until
the staff member has accrued a total of 25 calendar days’ worth of sick/personal
leave benefits (maximum of 200 hours). If the employee's benefits reach this
maximum, further accrual of sick/personal leave benefits will be suspended until
the staff member has reduced the balance below the limit.
Sick/personal leave benefits are intended solely to provide income
protection in the event of illness/injury or occasional personal business, and
should not be used for any other absence. Unused sick/personal leave benefits will
not be paid to staff members either while they are employed or upon termination
of employment.
Staff can take sick/personal leave only to the extent earned.
Paid sick/personal leave cannot be approved in anticipation that it will be earned
in the future. Staff members should examine their most recent pay stub to
determine the amount of sick/personal leave earned and not request more than is
available. If the staff member does not have sufficient sick/personal leave, he/she
must utilize any paid vacation benefits that are available. If a circumstance arises
that a staff member is paid for more sick/personal leave than has been earned
(resulting in a negative balance in the amount of vacation available); the staff
member’s compensation will be reduced by the overpayment in the next pay
period to rebalance the account.<<<SECTION>>> Donation of Leave to Employees:
Andrew College allows employees to donate either Vacation or
Sick/Personal leave to other employees that can be used as Sick/Personal leave.
The following rules apply:
 The employee cannot receive leave until they have exhausted all their
vacation or sick/personal leave
 The supervisor has the responsibility to request leave from all employees
once this exhaustion has occurred. A supervisor must approve any
request for donated leave for an employee
 Approval also must be received from the Andrew College
President before a request for donated leave is performed
 An employee can only receive 12 weeks (480 hours) of donated leave in
a one-year period
 Four hours is the smallest increment of leave that can be donated. It can
be in any combination of Vacation or Sick/Personal leave
 Donated leave must be submitted on a form that can be obtained from
the Director of Human Resource’s office.
 An employee must be in good standing before they can donate leave. An
129



employee, who has resigned from the College, cannot donate more than
40 hours of either Vacation or Sick/Personal leave to another employee
Any unused donated leave goes back to the employee who donated the
leave. Leave will be issued to an employee on a ‘first in, first out’ basis. The
last person to donate leave will be the first individual who receives any unused
leave
<<<SECTION>>> Family and Medical Leave:
Andrew College provides family/medical leaves of absence without pay
to eligible staff members who wish to take time off from work duties to fulfill
family obligations. Leave relating directly to the birth, adoption or placement
of a child for adoption or foster care; the illness of a child, spouse, or parent;
or who are temporarily unable to work due to a medical disability are qualifying
reasons. Employees are eligible for leave if they have worked for Andrew
College at least 12 months and at least 1,250 hours over the past 12 months.
As soon as eligible staff members become aware of the need for a
family/medical leave of absence, they should request leave from their supervisor.
Staff members requesting family/medical leave related to the illness of a
child, spouse, or parent, may be required to provide a physician's statement
verifying the illness, its beginning and expected ending dates, the need for the staff
member to provide care, and the estimated time required. Staff members may also
request family/medical leave for the birth or adoption of a child or the death of an
immediate family member. Eligible staff members may request up to 12 work
weeks of unpaid leave during the 12-month period (the 12-month period starting
with the employee’s “anniversary” date). In addition, any donated leave used by
the employee will run concurrent with this 12-week absence.
Request for family/medical leave should be in advance for foreseeable
events and as soon as possible for unforeseeable events. Requests will be
evaluated based on a number of factors, including anticipated work load
requirements, staffing considerations, and hardship to Andrew College's
operations during the proposed period of absence.
An employee’s health insurance will be continued under the same
benefit arrangement as was made prior to the employee taking unpaid FMLA
leave. It is the employee’s responsibility to make the arrangements necessary to pay
his or her normal portion of the insurance premium to the College on or before
the 1st of the month prior to coverage. The benefit stops if and when an employee
informs the College of the intent not to return to work at the end of the leave
period, or if the employee fails to return to work when the FMLA leave
entitlement is exhausted. The College’s obligation also stops if the employee’s
premium payment is more than 30 days late. The College will NOT continue any
other elected insurance benefit.
Benefit accruals, such as vacation, sick/personal leave, or holiday
benefits, will be suspended during the leave and will resume upon return to active
employment.
130

So that an employee's return to work can be properly scheduled, an
employee on family/medical leave is requested to provide Andrew College with
at least two weeks’ advance notice of the date the staff member intends to return
to work. When a family/medical leave ends, every reasonable effort will be made
to return the staff member to the same position, if it is available, or to a similar
available position for which the staff member is qualified.
If an employee fails to report to work promptly at the end of the
approved leave period, Andrew College will assume that the staff member has
resigned.
Additional information on the FMLA may be found in the U.S.
Department of Labor’s Fact Sheet #28 available in the Director of Human
Resources office.<<<SECTION>>> Jury/Witness Duty:
Andrew College encourages staff members to fulfill their civic
responsibilities by serving jury duty when required or serving as a witness when
subpoenaed as a witness in a trial. Staff members will be considered on paid leave
during jury or witness duty. Faculty members should consult with the Dean of
Academic Affairs regarding their absence for jury duty.
For non-exempt employees’ jury duty pay will be calculated on the
employee's base pay rate times the number of hours the staff member would
otherwise have worked on the day of absence. Vacation, sick/personal leave, will
continue to accrue during jury duty leave. Employees who are on jury duty and are
scheduled for work on night shifts the same workday shall be protected from loss
of pay for the entire 24 hour period.
Staff members must show the jury duty summons to their supervisor
as soon as possible so that necessary arrangements may be made to
accommodate their absence. Staff members are expected to report for work
whenever the court schedule permits and must provide proof of service after
their duty has concluded. Supervisors are responsible for assuring a copy of the
jury duty summons is forwarded to the Director of Human Resources office for
filing.
Either Andrew College or the staff member may request an excuse
from jury duty if, in Andrew College's judgment, the employee's absence would
create serious operational difficulties.
Staff members who are absent because they are either a plaintiff or
defendant in a court proceeding must use vacation, sick/personal, or unpaid leave
during their absence from the College. In these cases the College reserves the right
to disapprove the absence and terminate the employee if necessary.<<<SECTION>>> Leave of Absence/Sabbatical:
A leave of absence without pay is an authorized, temporary release of a
faculty or staff member from the payroll. Leaves of absence without pay may be
granted when it serves the best interests, both of the employee and the College.
Permission for a leave of absence is at the discretion of the employee’s department
131

head and the College President. Faculty members must follow the procedures for
leaves of absence in the Faculty Handbook. Military Leave and Family and Medical
Leave are addressed separately. All accrued leave (vacation and sick leave) must be
used prior to commencing an unpaid leave of absence. An application for leave of
absence must be made in writing using a form available in the Director of Human
Resources office. The leave of absence must be for a specific time period (not to
exceed one year). The individual’s department head and the College President
must approve the leave. Benefits will be suspended during the leave of absence
unless the employee pays both the College and employee share of the premiums.
For leave of less than 30 days, employee benefit contributions will be deducted
from the first check upon return to work. For leaves greater than 30 days, an
employee must pay contributions to the College by the first of each month.
Benefits will continue provided the employee’s contributions are received on a
monthly basis. Employees should consult with the Director of Human Resources
regarding benefit continuation during a leave of absence. Contributions to the
employees 403(b) retirement account will be suspended during the leave of
absence. Credit for vacation or sick leave entitlement is not accumulated during a
leave of absence without pay.
An individual on leave may be replaced with a temporary employee
during the absence. Requests to return from leave earlier than the agreed upon
time must be approved by the employee’s supervisor.
When the employee returns to employment at the termination of a leave of
absence without pay every attempt will be made to reinstate the individual in the
same position he/she formerly held, or in a position of similar status and pay.
The College does not guarantee reinstatement at the end of a leave of absence.
Failure to return to work upon expiration of approved leave will be considered a
voluntary termination of employment. In such cases, an individual subsequently
desiring to return to work at the College will be treated as a new applicant.
Paid sabbaticals are not normally available to College staff members.<<<SECTION>>> Military Leave:
A military leave of absence will be granted to employees to attend
scheduled drills or training or if called to active duty with the U.S. armed services
for a period of up to five years. Employees will continue to receive full pay while
on leave for two-week training assignments and shorter absences. The portion of
any military leaves of absence in excess of two weeks will be unpaid. However,
employees may use any accumulated paid leave time for the absence.
Subject to the terms, conditions and limitations of the applicable plans
for which the employee is otherwise eligible, health insurance benefits will be
provided by Andrew College for a military leave of 31 or less days. For leaves of
greater than 31 days, health insurance will become the responsibility of the
employee. The employee can continue on the College’s health insurance plan for
an 18-month period, with payment of 100% of the premium for these benefits.
When the staff member returns from military leave, benefits will again be provided
by Andrew College according to the applicable plans currently in effect and in
compliance with applicable federal law.

132

Benefit accruals, such as vacation, sick/personal leave, or holiday
benefits, will be suspended during the leave and will resume upon the employee's
return to active employment. Military leave will not be counted as time away from
the College for retirement benefits. Upon return to employment from military
leave, an employee will be eligible for the College’s retirement contributions (to
include all military leave time) under the same requirements as is set forth in the
retirement plan.
Employees on military leave less than 31 days are required to return to
work for the first regularly scheduled shift after the end of service, allowing
reasonable travel time and an eight-hour rest period. If this is impossible or
unreasonable, then as soon as possible. Employees on military leave 31 to 180
days must apply for reinstatement within 14 days of the end of the military leave.
If this is impossible or unreasonable, then as soon as possible. Employees on
military leave 181 days or more must apply for reemployment no later than 90
days after completion of military service. Service connected injury or illness
reporting and applications deadlines are extended for up to two years for
employees who are hospitalized or convalescing.
Following military leave, an employee will be reemployed to the same or
comparable position, at the same seniority, status, and rate of pay that he or she
would have with continuous employment. They will be treated as though they
were continuously employed for purposes of determining benefits based on length
of service, such as the rate of vacation accrual and job seniority rights.
Andrew College complies with the Uniformed Services Employment
and Reemployment Rights Act. Additional information can be obtained from the
Bursar.<<<SECTION>>> Injury on the Job:
All employees who are injured at Andrew College must immediately see
an approved physician from our workers compensation list. They also must make
the Vice President for Finance or Director of Human Resources aware of the
injury within 24 business hours after the injury. In addition, the injured employee
must immediately inform their supervisor.
<<<SECTION>>> Social and Psychological Counseling:
Andrew College does not offer social or psychological counseling for faculty, staff,
or students. The Dean of Student Affairs and Director of the Focus program maintain a
list of resources in the nearby area and will make it available to the employee upon request.
Agencies and Organizations on the list are provided for information only and a listing is
not an endorsement, recommendation, or testimony as to services on the part of Andrew
College.<<<SECTION>>> Personal Appearance:
Dress, grooming, and personal cleanliness standards contribute to the morale of all faculty
and staff members and has an impact on the professional image Andrew College presents to
students and visitors. While there is no established dress code, faculty and staff members are
expected to present a clean and neat appearance and to dress according to the requirements of
133

their positions. Employees should be aware that dress standards may differ for different
departments and positions. Consult your department head if you have questions as to what
constitutes appropriate attire for your position and assignment.<<<SECTION>>> Personnel Data Changes:
It is the responsibility of each faculty and staff member to promptly notify Andrew
College of any changes in personnel data. Personal mailing addresses, telephone numbers, number
and names of dependents, individuals to be contacted in the event of an emergency, educational
accomplishment, and other such status reports should be accurate and current at all times. All
personnel data changes should be reported to the Director of Human Resources.
Faculty and staff members are encouraged to submit documentation relating to continuing
education, training, publications, honors, etc. to the Dean of Academic Affairs and Director of
Human Resources for inclusion in their files. Accreditation criteria ask that persons continue to
possess the training and capabilities to effectively perform their jobs. Information of this nature
helps self-study committees in their analyses.<<<SECTION>>> Personnel Files:
The Andrew College Business Office maintains a personnel file on each faculty and
staff member. The personnel file includes information such as job application, resume, records
of training, documentation of performance appraisals, salary increases, and other employment
records.
Personnel files are the property of Andrew College, and access to the information they
contain is restricted. Generally, only supervisors and administrative personnel of Andrew College
who have a legitimate reason to review information in a file are allowed to do so.
Faculty/Staff members who wish to review their own file should contact the Director of
Human Resources. With reasonable advance written notice, faculty/staff members may review
their own personnel files in Andrew College's offices and in the presence of an individual
appointed by Andrew College to maintain the files. Information may not be removed from the file
but the faculty/staff member may obtain copies of information by submitting a request in writing
to the Director of Human Resources, respectively, indicating what material is desired. The copies
must be picked up in person and the College reserves the right to charge a reasonable fee to make
copies. Andrew College reserves the right to grant or deny the written request.<<<SECTION>>>

Performance Assessment:<<<SECTION>>> Staff:
Performance assessment of Andrew College staff is considered an integral
part of the College’s effectiveness. Andrew College assesses staff members formally once
a year; new staff members may receive reviews at three months and six months as part of
the probationary process. Annual reviews are conducted between the middle of February
and the middle of March. Final assessments for all non-faculty staff members are due to
the Office of the Human Resources Department no later than March 31st. All
performance assessment will be reviewed by the President. (Note: Cabinet Officers will
have assessments performed by the College President during the same time period.)
Supervisors and staff members are strongly encouraged to discuss job
performance and goals on an informal, day-to-day basis. Formal performance
assessments are conducted to provide both supervisors and staff members the
opportunity to discuss job tasks, identify and correct weaknesses, encourage and
recognize strengths, and discuss positive purposeful approaches for meeting goals. The
formal performance assessment is conducted according to standardized procedure using
134

a specific assessment form.
Assessments are discussed with the affected staff member and the completed
evaluation form is signed by the staff member to indicate the review was completed.
The staff member’s signature indicates only that the evaluation was read, and is not to
be construed as necessarily implying agreement with the evaluation. The original signed
Performance Assessment will be submitted to the Director of Human Resources for
filing.<<<SECTION>>> Faculty:
Faculty evaluations are conducted according to the provisions in Section 10.6.4
of this manual.<<<SECTION>>>

Faculty Personnel Policies:<<<SECTION>>> Faculty Qualifications:
Both the full-time faculty and the part-time faculty of Andrew College meet or
exceed the minimum faculty qualifications as established by the Southern
Association of Colleges and Schools (SACS) listed below:




Faculty teaching associate degree courses designed for transfer to a baccalaureate
degree must possess a doctoral or a master’s degree in the teaching discipline or a
master’s degree with a concentration in the teaching discipline (a minimum of 18
graduate semester hours in the teaching discipline)
Faculty teaching associate degree courses not designed for transfer to the
baccalaureate degree must possess a baccalaureate degree in the teaching discipline,
or an associate degree and demonstrated competencies in the teaching discipline
<<<SECTION>>>

Academic Freedom:
Andrew College subscribes to the following principles of academic
freedom, as set forth in the Bulletin of the American Association of the University
Professors (2004):
Academic freedom in its teaching aspect is fundamental for the protection of the rights of the
teacher in teaching and of the student to freedom in learning. It carries with it duties correlative with rights.
Teachers are entitled to full freedom in research and in the publication of the results, subject to
the adequate performance of their other academic duties; but research for pecuniary return should be
based upon an understanding with the authorities of the institution.
Teachers are entitled to freedom in the classroom in discussing their subjects, but they should be
careful not to introduce into the teaching controversial matter that has no relation to the subject. Limitations
of academic freedom because of religious or other aims of the institution should be clearly stated in writing at
the time of the appointment.
The college and university teachers are citizens, members of a learned profession, and officers of
an educational institution. When they speak or write as citizens, they should be free from institutional
censorship or discipline, but their special position in the community imposes special obligations. As
scholars and educational officers, they should remember that the public may judge their profession and
their institution by their utterances. Hence, they should at all times be accurate, should exercise
appropriate restraint, should show respect for the opinions of others and should make every effort to
indicate that they are not speaking for the institution.
135
<<<SECTION>>>

Adjunct Faculty Evaluation:
Adjunct faculty members are evaluated each semester following the same
procedure as full-time faculty members, minus the Professional Development Plan.
Adjunct faculty members are expected to attend faculty workshops and regularly
scheduled faculty meetings whenever possible. Adjunct faculty members are assigned to
the appropriate Division Coordinator as an immediate contact person. During each
semester, the contact person meets with the adjunct faculty member at least twice to insure
the continuity and quality of instruction. In particular, the following is ascertained:
1. Does the instructor meet the class regularly and for the time scheduled?
2. Does the instructor understand and operate within the mission and purpose
of Andrew College?
3. Does the adjunct faculty member provide students’ access to him/her before
or after classes for purposes of academic assistance?
Adjunct faculty members are to be available at least two hours each week to meet
with students during the semester in which they are employed. The Division Coordinator
provides results of the adjunct faculty member’s evaluation to the Dean of Academic
Affairs, and the evaluation is filed in the Adjunct faculty member’s official file.<<<SECTION>>>

Annual Faculty Evaluation:
Annual faculty evaluation is developmental in that it emphasizes documenting
progress toward attaining goals. It is tied to the expectations and elements needed in the
development of a portfolio that will serve as the basis for promotion and tenure. Division
Coordinators help guide faculty members through the promotion and tenure process in
an advocacy and mentoring role.
Faculty seeking promotion or tenure should discuss with their Division Coordinator
other college-specific materials that should be included in tenure or promotion packet.
All forms are provided by the Office of Academic Affairs.
The annual faculty evaluation cycle timeline is as follows:
1. October 1st – Professional Development Plan (Form 1) for upcoming academic year is
prepared in conjunction with the Division Coordinator and submitted by the
Division Coordinator with the Supervisor’s Review to the Office of Academic
Affairs.
2. October 1st – Supervisor’s Review (Forms 3 & 4) of the previous academic
year is submitted by the Division Coordinators to the Office of Academic Affairs.
3. May 15th – Faculty members submit a self-evaluation of their progress in meeting
the year’s professional development plans to their Division Coordinators.
Division Coordinators will use these self-evaluations, along with student
evaluations and other types of data to develop the Supervisor’s Review.
Copies of annual faculty evaluations will be filed in the faculty member’s official
file in the Office of Academic Affairs. The Dean of Academic Affairs will share the results
of all of the above with the President (and/or appropriate committee) when evaluating
faculty members for retention, salary increases, promotion and tenure.
When a faculty member's evaluation suggests improvement is needed, the Dean of
Academic Affairs may require meetings with another professor teaching in the same area
for professional guidance; articles from professional journals that focus upon a perceived
weakness; classroom visitation by a colleague; and continued evaluation by students
136

beyond that normally required. The Dean of Academic Affairs also may initiate
suggestions for improvement stemming from written responses of the students.
Full-time faculty members will be evaluated at least once annually. Full- time
faculty in their first year of employment will be evaluated twice annually.
Tenured full-time faculty at the rank of professor will be evaluated once every three
years.<<<SECTION>>> Contracts:<<<SECTION>>> Andrew College contracts are annual contracts subject to annual renewal.
Faculty are issued contracts by the President assuming need, compatibility with the
goals of the College, and proper recommendations from
the Dean of Academic Affairs. Faculty members will be notified of a contract no later than
April 15th.<<<SECTION>>> A decision not to renew a contract may be made by either the College or by the
faculty member. A faculty member should give notification of intent to separate from the
College at least 60 days prior to the end of the current contract period. The faculty
member may properly request a waiver of this requirement of notice in the case of
hardship or in a situation where the faculty member would otherwise be denied substantial
professional advancement of other opportunity.<<<SECTION>>> A decision not to renew a contract on the part of the College requires
notification by April 15th. Faculty should understand that in cases of contract nonrenewal, statements of reason will not be given. A written notice of non- renewal will be
provided.<<<SECTION>>> Andrew College subscribes to the principals of academic freedom that are listed
under “Academic Freedom” in Section 10.6.2. While the College protects the academic
freedom of each member of the faculty, it reserves the right to terminate for cause the
service of a faculty member with 30 days’ notice. Cause includes, but is not limited to, loss
of competence, neglect of duty, immorality, sexual harassment, insubordination, program
changes, and inability to relate to students and/or colleagues, and financial exigency.<<<SECTION>>>

Due Process:
In case of termination for cause, the faculty member is always entitled to due
process. Within 30 days of the notice of termination, the faculty member may request in
writing a hearing date. This request should be addressed to the President of the College.
The President will appoint a hearing committee. The committee will consist of three
faculty members with no more than one from the same division. The committee will be
chaired by someone appropriate to the situation and not of the same division.
The committee will set a time, place, and date for the hearing as soon as possible.
The faculty member will appear at the hearing to give testimony, offer witnesses, or
provide any evidence in opposition to the charge(s) of cause. The committee will also hear
the Dean of Academic Affairs as the responsible supervisor for all faculty members. Upon
completion of all testimony and evidence, the committee will recommend a course of
action to the President.
137

Should the ruling be adverse to the faculty member, then the faculty member will have
the right, by request in writing, to have a full hearing, de novo, before the President of the
College. The decision of the President in this hearing is final.<<<SECTION>>>

Duties and Expectations:
At Andrew College, professionalism governs the faculty member’s relationship
with all of the College constituencies: fellow faculty members, students, administration,
board members, outside agencies, and the community at large. Professional expectations
include:
1. Support of the College’s mission by attendance at its events and familiarity
with the history and purpose of Andrew College as a two-year, senior collegeparallel, church-related college and a life-style and philosophy compatible with the
purpose of the College

2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

A high level of ethics and academic practices
Adherence to College policies and procedures
Commitment to excellence in teaching and enhancement of student learning
Availability to students to “nurture” and advise them in academic matters
Service to the institution by active involvement in committee work and the
decision making processes regarding academic matters
7. Participation in programs of evaluation that include self-evaluation, peer
evaluation, and administrative evaluation
8. Evidence of professional growth
9. The exercise of academic freedom in a responsible fashion; and
10. Recognition and support of the rights of students, which include the right to privacy
of information, the right to due process, the right of appeal, the right to quality
instruction, and the right to be treated with dignity
Specific duties regarding instruction include the responsibilities:
1. To provide a syllabus for each course that states the course requirements, the
grading system, attendance policies and sanctions for academic dishonesty (See
Appendix 3 – Course Syllabus Guidelines provided in the Faculty Handbook)
2. To file a copy of each syllabus with the Dean of Academic Affairs each semester
3. To meet all classes for the full period of time required
4. To provide that classes will not suffer adversely if an absence cannot be avoided
5. To schedule a minimum of ten office hours per week (Monday - Friday), to post
office hours for the benefit of students, and to file each term a copy of posted
office hours with the Office of Academic Affairs
6. To serve as a faculty advisor in assisting students to achieve both academic and
personal goals and to pursue a curriculum appropriate to the students’ transfer
plans
7. To deal with student absences in accordance with College policy
8. To record grades in Empower and to guarantee privacy of information regarding
students’ grades and their posting, and to remember the ethical principles of
commenting upon a student, whether positively or negatively
9. To hold final examinations as scheduled and to be present for all
examinations
10. To file with the Office of Academic Affairs a copy of each final
examination and to maintain on file all final examinations
11. To submit mid-term and final grades according to the schedule and
guidelines issued by the Registrar
138

12. To be accessible to administrators and students between the last day of
examinations and graduation day
13. To submit all proposed courses and course changes to the Educational Program
Committee according to the schedule guidelines issued by the committee
14. To attend all faculty meetings
15. To participate in commencement, convocations and other official
functions of the College
16. To serve on committees as appointed by the President and the Dean of
Academic Affairs
17. To participate in College workshops, registration and testing programs as
announced and scheduled by the Dean of Academic Affairs
18. To submit notice of absences in Empower and low grade concerns to the
Retention Coordinator
Faculty members are expected to consult periodically with the librarian for
the purpose of requisitioning new materials that are appropriate to their departments.<<<SECTION>>>

Faculty Development:
Andrew College supports and encourages professional development. At least one
program of in-service education will be sponsored annually. All faculty are expected to
participate in this in-service offering.
In addition, the Faculty Development Committee is charged with reviewing and
either approving or disapproving special faculty requests for monetary support to
attend relevant meetings and/or conferences, workshops, etc.
Monies will be budgeted annually for professional travel. Written requests, with
descriptive information, should be submitted to the Office of Academic Affairs. All
applications will be considered if monies budgeted for this program have not been
exhausted. Although larger amounts may be awarded in a single year, grants to individual
faculty members should not average more than
$500 annually. If a faculty member chooses not to use his/her professional development
money in any given year, he/she may allocate the funds to another faculty member upon
approval by the Faculty Development Committee.
<<<SECTION>>>

Faculty Rank:
Except for temporary appointments to meet emergency circumstances and/or
appointments in professional areas, such as art, athletics/physical education, strategic
studies, and music, faculty ordinarily will not be appointed who have not earned the
master’s degree. All appointments and promotions are made by the President and subject
to approval by the Board of Trustees.
Assistant
Degree
Instructor
Associate Professor Full Professor
Professor
B.A.

Perm

X

X

X

M.A/MS

3

Perm

X

X

M+*

X

5

Perm

X

Doctoral

X

3

5

Perm

139

*Unless degree represents a terminal degree in the area whereby the person may be
promoted to Full Professor after seven years at the rank of Associate Professor.
Instructor: Instructors must hold the master’s degree or the appropriate credentials and
be competent in the teaching discipline.
Assistant Professor: Assistant Professors must either have the terminal degree in the
discipline or a master’s degree in the teaching discipline with a minimum of three years
college teaching experience as an instructor or its equivalent.
Associate Professor: Associate Professors must hold the terminal degree or have
exceptional recognition in the teaching area. Associate Professors must have a minimum
of five years as an Assistant Professor.
Full Professor: Full Professors must have the terminal degree (ordinarily the doctorate) in
the teaching discipline and/or have received exceptional recognition in the teaching area.
Professors must have a minimum of ten years of college teaching experience or its
equivalent and at least five years as an Associate Professor.<<<SECTION>>> Faculty Recruitment:
As a church-related college, Andrew affirms the worth of every individual and
thus does not discriminate for reasons of age, marital status, origin, physical handicap,
race, sex, or religion (except that the faculty member is supportive of the Judeo-Christian
tradition).
1. All full-time positions must be:
 Advertised in at least one national publication (i.e. The Chronicle of
Higher Education)
 Listed on at least one website appropriate to the position being
advertised
2. Following advertisement for position vacancies:
 The Division Coordinator and the Dean of Academic Affairs, will
review all applications;
 The Dean of Academic Affairs will issue an invitation to interview to those
applicants chosen to the committee as finalists;
 The search committee will review all applicants who accept the
invitation to interview and recommend a candidate to the President
 The President will, in consultation with the search committee and the
Dean of Academic Affairs, offer a contract as well as the academic rank
that will accompany the appointment
Resumes and credentials received from the applicants will serve as the position
application and no other application will be required. Copies of official transcripts from
every institution of higher education attended by the faculty member must be on file in the
Office of Academic Affairs. A current resume is required.<<<SECTION>>> Leaves of Absence:
The administration may suggest or mandate that a faculty member take a leave of
absence in order to improve his/her credentials or for reasons of health. Faculty members
may also request a voluntary leave of absence. Written requests, with descriptive
information, should be submitted to the Office of Academic Affairs by March 1st of the
140

year preceding. Mandatory leave will be processed administratively. Requests for voluntary
leave will be submitted to the Faculty Development Committee who will make a
recommendation to the President of the College. If leave is granted, the Director of
Human Resources must be notified in writing. In considering requests for leaves of
absence, the following guidelines will apply:
1. Persons who have completed fewer than five years of service ordinarily will not be
granted a leave of absence
2. Benefits will be continued for persons granted an official leave of absence
3. Although it is not required to do so, the College may provide financial
assistance to persons on leave if monies are available
4. Unless otherwise specified at the time leave is granted, persons granted a leave of absence
will be expected to return to the College for a period of time equal to the amount of
leave granted
5. Persons who do not return to the College will be required to reimburse the College
for any monies advanced, including the costs of benefits provided
6. Except for persons enrolled in a doctoral program and for persons whose leave is
mandated by the College, a leave ordinarily will not be granted for more than one
year in any five year period
7. A leave of absence may be terminated at the discretion of the College<<<SECTION>>> Mini Grants:
Mini grants may be awarded to faculty and to professional staff who wish to do
research, to participate in a workshop, to take a course, to attend summer school, or to
participate in a similar program of professional development.
Persons who wish to be considered for a mini grant should submit a written request, with
descriptive information, to the Office of Academic Affairs. The Faculty Development
Committee will consider all applications.<<<SECTION>>> Orientation of New Faculty:
The Dean of Academic Affairs will be responsible for the orientation of all new
members of the faculty. Topics will include, but will not be limited to, a description of the
goals of Andrew College, a description of the Andrew student, a description of the
"successful faculty member" at Andrew College, the preparation of syllabi, administrative
procedures, rights and responsibilities of the student, the criteria and processes of
evaluation of faculty, continuation and termination, community responsibilities and
community life. In order to guarantee continuing support of the faculty member, each
faculty member will be assigned a mentor who is an experienced member of the faculty.<<<SECTION>>> Pitts Library:
Faculty members should make personal use of the Pitts Library as well as
encourage students to do so. Pitts Library has over 35,000 volumes and almost 230
periodical subscriptions, plus access to 4,000 titles through GALILEO.
Inter-library loan service for books and periodicals is available at a nominal cost.
Orientation lectures for the students are given by the Director of Library Services. Faculty
members are expected to consult periodically with the Librarian for the purpose of
requisitioning new books that are appropriate to their departments. A reference help desk
may be accessed 24 hours a day through the library email.

141
<<<SECTION>>> Promotion:
The system of promotion at Andrew College is intended to recognize professional
growth and promote cultivation of the developing relationship between the faculty
member and the College. This relationship will include but not be limited to a lifestyle and
philosophy of education compatible with the goals and the mission of Andrew College and
a sound working relationship with students, fellow faculty members, administration, and
staff.<<<SECTION>>> Promotion to Assistant Professor:
Four years in rank, master’s degree, evidence of professional growth
and service to Andrew College, positive leadership, scholarly achievement, and
commitment to Christian higher education.<<<SECTION>>> Promotion to Associate Professor:
Five years in rank as Assistant Professor at Andrew College,
A.B.D. or recognized terminal degree in the discipline; (six years of consecutive
service at Andrew College may serve in lieu of completion of the doctoral level
course work), evidence of professional growth and service to Andrew College,
positive leadership, scholarly achievement and commitment to Christian higher
education.<<<SECTION>>> Promotion to Professor:
Six years in rank as Associate Professor at Andrew College,
doctoral degree or recognized terminal degree in the discipline; (ten years of
consecutive service and Andrew College may serve in lieu of the doctoral degree),
evidence of professional growth and service to Andrew College, positive
leadership, scholarly achievement and commitment to Christian higher education.<<<SECTION>>> Procedure for Promotion Evaluation:
1. Faculty members will be responsible for notifying the Dean of Academic Affairs
that they are eligible to be considered for promotion with a letter explaining
eligibility. The Dean of Academic Affairs then notifies the Faculty Development
Committee.
2. The Faculty Development Committee will meet with the applicant, explain the
procedure, and request the faculty member to submit a list of four full-time
colleagues (faculty members) to act as evaluators. Evaluators may not be the
applicant’s Division Coordinator. The committee will choose two evaluators,
representing different divisions and one with faculty rank higher than the
applicant’s, from this list of four.
3. The faculty member will supply the evaluators with a Teaching Portfolio that
includes items the faculty member deems appropriate. The Faculty
Development Committee urges the faculty member to use the FG&S
evaluation form as a guide. (See Appendix 2 – Annual Faculty Evaluations)
4. The evaluators will evaluate the candidate based upon the portfolio and classroom
teaching observations then will prepare recommendations for the committee.
5. The committee will review the recommendations of the evaluators and make a
recommendation to the President. The President will review the recommendation
and may also request a recommendation from the Dean of Academic Affairs. The
President will then make a recommendation to the Executive Committee of the
Board of Trustees.
142

6. The Board of Trustees will make a final decision upon the
recommendation
7. The faculty member will be notified of the results by the President in the name of
the Board of Trustees
8. All evaluation will be confidential and shared with the faculty member only if
the President chooses to do so.<<<SECTION>>> Professional Memberships and Subscriptions:
The College will pay for one professional membership for each faculty member,
provided the cost of the membership does not exceed $50 annually. Requests for
payment should be submitted to the Office of Academic Affairs on an annual basis.<<<SECTION>>> Public Relations:
1. Each faculty member is a representative of Andrew College in the community and at
professional meetings. The faculty member should endeavor to promote and establish
good relations at all times. All statements, information and newsworthy material
released in the name of the College will be channeled through the Director of
Communication/Marketing.
2. Faculty members are expected to actively support College events
3. For all academic processions, faculty will wear full academic attire: that is, robe, cap,
and hood appropriate to the highest degree attained. All members of the faculty and
administration who hold an academic degree are expected to participate<<<SECTION>>> Simultaneous Employment:
Authorization and/or appointment for teaching is issued through the Dean of
Academic Affairs. A faculty member must receive approval from the Dean of Academic
Affairs before accepting simultaneous employment elsewhere.<<<SECTION>>> Special Assignments:
The duties of a faculty member may include special, often unpredictable,
assignments that are deemed desirable or necessary for the proper operation of the
College. One such special assignment recurs each semester: assistance in
registration procedures under the direction of the Dean of Academic Affairs. Other
special assignments are such services as the following: advising student organizations,
representing the College at professional meetings, acting as special delegates at the request
of the administration, serving on special committees, and helping with the orientation
program. These are examples and are not intended to represent a complete listing.<<<SECTION>>> Teaching Load:
Andrew College desires, insofar as possible, to practice equity in the distribution of
assignments. An unduly heavy workload can affect the effectiveness of the instructor in
performing teaching and advising duties. An unduly light workload deprives the College of
services that should be rendered by full-time faculty and inflicts an unjust burden on other
faculty members. It is difficult to establish a policy which applies across all members of the
College due to the variance in teaching, advisory, service, and abilities. Nevertheless,
policies can be stated which are reasonable, but sufficiently flexible, to allow faculty at
Andrew College to cooperate in efficient and effective assignments.
The duties of a faculty member may include special, often unpredictable,
assignments that are deemed desirable or necessary for the proper operation of the
College. One such special assignment recurs each semester: assistance in registration
143

procedures under the direction of the Dean of Academic Affairs.
Other special assignments are such services as the following: advising student
organizations, representing the college at professional meetings, acting as special delegates
at the request of the administration, serving on special committees, and helping with the
Orientation program. These are examples and are not intended to represent a complete
listing.
Faculty Teaching Load:
The standard teaching load will be the equivalent of 15 semester hours during Fall
& Spring semesters. Each contract hour of a lecture class counts as one teaching load
hour. For lab courses, one contact hour equals 0.75 teaching load hours and each hour of a
private lesson equates to 0.66 teaching load hours. Teaching load may be temporarily or
permanently reduced when involvement in non-teaching activities of the College is greater
than normal. If more than 15 teaching hours per semester is assigned, the faculty member
will be compensated. Such compensation will be determined by the Dean of Academic
Affairs and agreed to as a supplemental contract by the faculty member in advance of
teaching the overload; or the faculty member may accept a proportionately reduced
teaching load in a subsequent term of the same academic year. Overload normally may not
exceed more than 19 hours without approval from the Dean of Academic Affairs.
Non-Teaching Load:
Because it is almost impossible to measure the non-teaching portion of a faculty
work load, the College endeavors to assign non-teaching duties equitably but at the same
time considers the uniqueness of disciplines and programs. The procedures for seeking a
reduction in the teaching load are explained in “Reduction in Teaching Load.” All faculty
members are expected to become active and valuable contributors to the College’s efforts
for continuous, on-going, improvement in its academic programs and operations based
upon assessment and data-driven decision making.
Reduction in Teaching Load:
When involvement in non-teaching activities of the College is greater than normal,
a faculty member may request a temporary or permanent adjustment in teaching load. The
College’s request for such involvement by a faculty member must be agreed to by the
faculty member and the Division Coordinator. The request for a reduction in teaching
load may be initiated by the faculty member or Division Coordinator. The request will be
acted upon by the Dean of Academic Affairs in consultation with the faculty member and
Division Coordinator.<<<SECTION>>> Tenure:
Tenure is designed for the protection of academic freedom, and it is one of the
highest honors a faculty member can receive. It protects faculty members from arbitrary
sanctions that would curtail or inhibit the search for truth in the classroom, the veracious
consideration of matters concerning the College, and voluntary participation in the life of
the community and society at large. Tenure assures open consideration of issues in
committees served by the faculty as well as in student organizations seeking faculty help
and guidance. Tenure helps maintain the open market of ideas essential to the vitality and
survival of a democratic society.
Tenure at Andrew College is not associated with any particular rank. It will be
based on merit and extended only to those individuals whose performance as teachers
144

and/or scholars is clearly of high quality and to those who are above the rank of instructor
and are employed full time; (full time denotes service on a one hundred percent workload
basis).
When the Board of Trustees of Andrew College grants tenure, a permanent
relationship between the faculty member and Andrew College is established. Both assume
mutual responsibilities and obligations. For this reason tenure will not be granted in
routine fashion. Factors other than length of service will be considered. These will include,
but not necessarily be limited to, good growth, a life style and philosophy of education
compatible with the goals of Andrew College and a sound working relationship with
students, faculty, administration, and staff.<<<SECTION>>> Eligibility for Tenure:<<<SECTION>>>

A faculty member appointed initially at the rank of Instructor will be
considered for tenure at the end of seven years; at the rank of
Assistant/Associate Professor at the end of five years; at the rank of
Professor at the end of four years.<<<SECTION>>>
Part-time faculty members or faculty members appointed to nontenure track positions will not be eligible for tenure consideration.<<<SECTION>>>
Tenure will expire at the close of the academic year in which the
faculty member's 70th birthday occurs before March 1st. If the 70th birthday
occurs after March 1st, tenure will expire at the close of the next year. This
does not preclude the issuance of one-year contracts.<<<SECTION>>> Consideration for Tenure:
The Dean of Academic Affairs will notify the President when a faculty member
becomes eligible for tenure consideration. Not more than fifty percent of the faculty will
be tenured. The Board of Trustees upon the recommendation of the President grants
tenure.
A Committee on Tenure will be appointed by the President and be composed of
the Dean of Academic Affairs and three tenured faculty members who hold the rank of
Associate Professor or Professor. The committee will review the records of all
candidates for tenure and recommend to the President the granting or denying of tenure
to the candidate. When final authority for granting tenure is granted, proper notification
will be given to the faculty member.
Andrew College does reserve the right to terminate the services of a tenured
faculty member for cause. Cause includes, but is not limited to: loss of competence,
neglect of duty, immorality, insubordination, program changes, inability to relate to
students and/or colleagues, and financial exigency. In all such cases, the due process of
the faculty member is guaranteed.<<<SECTION>>>

Employee Hotline:
Andrew College has available to its employees and students a service called the “Campus
Conduct Hotline.” It allows individuals the ability to anonymously contact the Andrew College
administration though a caller service. This service is run in conjunction with the Andrew College
insurance carrier, EIIA. If an employee encounters any of the following items they can use the
“hotline”:
145












Fraud or crime
Sexual harassment
Discrimination
Safety or facility risk issues
Security and internet policy abuses
Code of conduct violations
Workplace hostility
Unethical grading practices
Fraudulent financial or business practices
Any other questionable behaviors

The “hotline” number is 866-943-5787. The call will be confidential and anonymous. It
will be answered by a masters’ degreed specialist in Psychology or Social Service. It will be
reported to the administration for investigation. The call will be assigned a case number for
follow-up by the caller.

146

Section 11.0

Student Policies<<<SECTION>>>

Disciplinary Authority:
The authority to act and the responsibility to act on social and disciplinary matters
is vested with the Dean of Student Affairs. As a church related institution, Andrew
College expects students to assume personal responsibility in all areas of college life and
in the maintenance of high standards of behavior. The Andrew College Social Code is
based upon the premise that the College should be a Christian community organized to
provide maximum benefits for all the members. Students are expected to exhibit
personal responsibility and integrity at all times. Like the Andrew College Honor Code,
the Social Code is the responsibility of every student, faculty and staff member at Andrew
College. Students must display, in attitude and conduct, a willingness to accept and
cooperate with the College in observing established policies. Social guidelines and
procedures for implementing social and behavioral policies are contained in the Andrew
College Student Handbook.
In general, the jurisdiction of the College is limited to events that occur on
College property. However, the jurisdiction of the Dean of Student Affairs may extend
outside the physical boundaries of the College when:
 A student is off-campus in the name of the College
 The student’s behavior may be a threat to the safety or security of members of
the College community or College property, functions, or facilities
 The alleged misconduct involves identification of the College
 Reflects adversely upon the mission of the College.
Once a student is registered at Andrew College, he/she is held accountable to the
Social Code and his/her conduct is under the jurisdiction of the faculty/staff of the
College. The College reserves the right to discipline violators of the Social Code and
established rules and policies of Andrew College. Students are required to report any
violations of the policies and procedures outlined in the Andrew College Student Handbook
along with any off-campus incidents or crimes when the violators are Andrew College
students to the Dean of Student Affairs.
All professional staff members and faculty members are expected to be familiar
with student disciplinary procedures as set forth in the Andrew College Student Handbook.
<<<SECTION>>>

Judicial Programs:
The educational mission of Andrew College holds many opportunities for
intellectual, social and spiritual development. A basic component of the educational
mission embellishes expectations of acceptable behavior based on ethics and integrity
necessary in a college community. The Andrew College judicial system attempts to
contribute to the teaching of appropriate individual and group behavior as well as
protecting the campus community from disruption and harm. The judicial programs
established at Andrew are conducted in ways that will serve to foster the ethical
development and personal integrity of students and the promotion of an environment
that is in accord with the overall academic mission of Andrew College.
All students are expected to comply with Andrew College policies as outlined in
the Andrew College Student Handbook. The Student Handbook is subject to change as policies
are updated and revised, thus the Student Handbook represents the policies that are in
effect at the time of publication. Members of the Andrew College community are also

147

subject to all local, state, and federal laws and statutes. Any alleged violations of laws and
statutes which occur on or off-campus are subject to College investigation and referral to
the Andrew College Police or local, state, or federal authorities.<<<SECTION>>>

New Student Orientation:
The responsibility for student orientation lies with the Dean of Student Affairs
and the Dean of Academic Affairs; however, it involves a yearlong effort of the entire
campus community. Pre-registration is the first of two components making up the new
student orientation program. First semester students are required to participate. The one
day pre-registration program provides students and their parents the opportunity to meet
the College administration, faculty and staff as well as returning Andrew students.
Students register for classes and receive their class schedules as along with information
about how to order textbooks. The activities and fun continues during the first weekend
on campus. Students will share in events that promote team-building and teach skills
needed to make them successful in college.
<<<SECTION>>>

Student Financial Aid:
Andrew College makes every effort to meet student financial needs as established
on the Financial Aid Form of the College Scholarship Service. Andrew College complies
with all applicable federal, state laws and regulations governing Financial Aid, including
Titles VI and VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, Title IX of the Educational
Amendments of 1972, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and the Age
Discrimination Act of 1975.
<<<SECTION>>>

Student Governance Procedures:
Students are expected to comply with the guidelines of Andrew College in order
to fulfill Andrew's purpose in providing an education in a Christian, caring environment.
The heart of this environment is the spirit of community and a basic respect and concern
for others. A community cannot exist successfully unless basic rights of the community
are upheld, and guidelines are important and necessary to define these rights and
standards of community life. A student who enrolls at Andrew voluntarily becomes a
member of this community where respect for others and mature behavior is expected in
the classroom, on the playing fields, and in the residence halls. Acceptance of admission
to Andrew College implies acceptance of the guidelines deemed important for the
community.
All professional staff members and faculty members are expected to be familiar
with Student Governance Procedures as set forth in the Andrew College Student Handbook.
<<<SECTION>>>

Student Handbook:
The Andrew College Student Handbook is the official guidebook of the Office of
Student Affairs. The handbook contains information on special services available to
students, basic information on opportunities for growth and development in the function
of student life, personal conduct policies on campus in general and in the residence halls,
and describes in detail the judicial procedures of the College. Various statements are
contained in the Andrew College Student Handbook that describe expectations the College
has of students concerning proper behavior and conduct while at Andrew.
Upon arrival at Andrew College, students are notified how to access the Andrew
College Student Handbook, which is located online.

148
<<<SECTION>>>

Student Health Services:
Upon enrollment at Andrew College, each student must submit a health
information form. This form is used in emergencies to provide important information to
medical professionals and to the staff. At check-in, each student must complete an
emergency contact card that remains on file in the Office of Student Affairs. All forms
must be completed in English and be legible.
If a student needs to receive medical treatment, there are doctors’ offices and an
emergency room within walking distance of campus; however, the student may receive
treatment where he or she chooses. Andrew College is NOT responsible for any
medical expenses occurred while at the College. It is expected for the students to
make reasonable decisions regarding health care.
Andrew College does provide limited medical treatment through a contracted
local physician. The physician is “on call” for the College and will be notified in the
event a student appears to need or requests emergency care. Students may also receive a
cost free medical exam and treatment from the College on call physician one day per
week in the physician’s local office. Students who wish to utilize this service must contact
the Office of Student Affairs for additional information. Andrew College expressly
disclaims any liability or responsibility arising from treating students by the physician or
their associates.
Andrew College provides supplemental accident insurance for all full-time
students, but coverage is limited, and there are exclusions. This secondary plan is not a
health insurance policy and does not provide benefits for non-accident related injuries or
for pre-existing injuries. Student athletes are automatically enrolled in the Andrew
College Athletic Accident Plan. This policy is secondary to, or in excess of, personal
family medical insurance coverage, and covers only injuries/illnesses/accidents resulting
from the direct participation in the intercollegiate athletics program during the dates of
the primary competitive season and designated off-seasons as approved by the Athletic
Director according to NJCAA regulations. This policy provides coverage for Athletic
Related Conditions up to a maximum of $5,000 per Athletic Related Condition. Initial
medical treatment must be received by a doctor within 90 days from the date of the accident or onset of
symptoms for Athletic Related Conditions. In addition, all student athletes are covered under a
long-term disability policy up to $3 million as part of the base plan. More information on
the Athletic Accident Plan is available from the Athletic Training Department. All
injuries must be reported as soon as possible to the Athletic Director or Coach of a
program. All injuries that require medical treatment must be reported to the Athletic
Trainer located in the Parker Building (Gym) in order to complete an accident claim
form. It is the student’s responsibility to complete a claim form for an accident. Any
injury occurring due to participation in intercollegiate athletics must be reported to the
Athletic Trainer.
<<<SECTION>>>

Office of Student Affairs:
Mission of Office of Student Affairs:
The Mission of the Office of Student Affairs is to create a nurturing environment
that supports the educational mission of Andrew College while fostering student
leadership, promoting campus involvement, facilitating individual and group
achievement, and mentoring behavior that is reflective of the values and Christian
heritage of the institution.
149

Office of Student Affairs is designed to promote activities and programs
supportive of the aims and purposes of the College. The first two years of college are
critical times in a student's academic life. It is the goal of the Office of Student Affairs to
make those years special and rewarding for each student. Andrew College is committed
to the idea that total education involves more than academic pursuit. The social, physical,
cultural, and spiritual aspects of the student's life share importance with academic
development. The activities sponsored within the Office of Student Affairs are designed
to achieve a continuing, optimal student life environment, to provide student
opportunities for gaining appreciation for the dignity and worth of the individual, to
encourage an appreciation and understanding of scholarship, creativity, community, and
to enhance the ability to relate with others. Policies relating to the Office of Student
Affairs area are contained throughout the Student Handbook.<<<SECTION>>>

Students with Disabilities:
Andrew College is committed to providing equal educational opportunities for all
students while facilitating a successful and positive college experience. One of the
responsibilities of the College is to help integrate students with disabilities into the
academic and social process so that they may enjoy a full college experience. At Andrew
College, the Director of Disability Services coordinates disability services for students
with disabilities. Students with disabilities must self-disclose their disabilities to the
Director of Disability Services and provide the required documentation, to be certified
eligible for services.
The Director of Disability Services reviews the student’s documentation to
determine eligibility for appropriate accommodations including but not limited to
physical disabilities, learning disabilities, and psychiatric disabilities, at Andrew College
under the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA) and Section 504 of the
Rehabilitation Act of 1973. Individuals requesting reasonable accommodations must
schedule an appointment with the Director of Disability Services as soon as the student is
accepted at Andrew College. The student must provide current documentation of his/her
disability from a qualified, licensed professional, and the documentation must meet the
criteria outlined in the Andrew College Disability Documentation Guidelines, which are available
through the Focus Program Office. The documentation must establish that the student
has an official diagnosis of a disability and demonstrate that the disability substantially
limits a major life activity. In addition, the documentation must validate the need for
reasonable accommodations and demonstrate the impact of the disability on the student’s
ability to function in a postsecondary setting. The documentation assists in the
determination of the appropriate accommodations and services to minimize the impact
of the disability and personalizes the student’s rights to equal access to Andrew College.
It is the responsibility of the student to provide this documentation and to
register with the Director of Disability Services by the end of the first full week of
classes; however, students are encouraged to contact the Director of Disability Services
and self-disclose any disabilities as soon as they are accepted to Andrew College. After
the Director of Disability Services documents the student’s appropriate
accommodations, it is the student’s responsibility to meet with each of his/her
instructors and faculty advisor, to communicate the appropriate accommodations that
the student is eligible to receive.

150

The Director of Disability Services’ office is located on the 3rd Floor of Old Main.
For more information visit
http://www.andrewcollege.edu/sites/default/files/attachments/focus/office_of_disability_servic
es_guide_to_services.pdf or http://www.andrewcollege.edu/focus-program
or call 229-732-5908.<<<SECTION>>>

Student Success Center:
The Student Success Center (SSC) is a one-stop-shop for the most
comprehensive academic support services available at Andrew College. This center is
open to all students and offers peer and professional tutoring. The center sponsors
academic success workshops and supplemental instruction along with tutoring in the
residence halls. The mission of the SSC is to increase retention, persistence, and
graduation rates through implementation of academic and student support initiatives.
The Student Success Center is located in the Library.
<<<SECTION>>>

Student Complaint and Grievance Policy:
Andrew College provides a wide variety of educational services, as well as artistic,
athletic, and cultural programs, along with non-academic services to students. As a
service organization, the College values high quality in the delivery of all of its academic
and administrative services. Occasionally, a student may feel that the treatment they have
received is not consistent with expectations based upon the College’s official documents,
such as the College Catalog or the Student Handbook. In these cases, Andrew College desires
to have a clearly defined path for students to express their complaints in a manner that
will provide documentation and accountability within the institution for providing a
timely response and resolution. This path is comprised of informal complaint
procedures, formal grievance procedures, and appeal procedures. Generally, the path
requires that a discussion take place between the involved individuals.
A student who feels that they have received treatment inconsistent with the
College’s policies may initiate a complaint. In most cases, student complaints can be
resolved through conversation. The immediate supervisor may be requested to attend the
meeting as well. If the informal complaint is not resolved, the student may contact the
dean or immediate supervisor for further investigation.
When a complaint goes unresolved following policy procedure, a student may file
a formal grievance. This grievance is written statement that is kept on file. The grievance
must be reported to the appropriate dean or supervisor, and show that policy has been
followed in attempt to resolve the concern. It is important that the grievance includes
information detailing the concern, name of complainant and contact information.
Students seeking to file a formal grievance concerning academics must fill out the
appropriate form. This form is located on the Andrew College webpage as well as in the
Office of Academic Affairs. Individuals seeking to file a formal grievance of a nonacademic concern must fill out the Incident Report Form located on the Student Affairs
page of the Andrew College webpage. Forms are also available in the Office of Student
Affairs.
Academic Grievance Policy:
A student who has an academic grievance shall meet with faculty member in an
attempt to resolve the issue. If a satisfactory resolution cannot be reached, the student
shall report the grievance and the result of the meeting with the faculty member, in
writing, to the Dean of Academic Affairs who, if deems it appropriate, will convene a
committee to hear the case.
151

The committee will consist of the Division Coordinator and the student’s advisor
and will be chaired by the Dean of Academic Affairs. If one of the regular committee
members is involved in the grievance, another appropriate faculty member will be
appointed. If the Dean of Academic Affairs is included in the grievance, the student
should report the grievance to the President.
Non-Academic Grievance Policy:
A student who has a non-academic grievance shall meet with the staff member in
an attempt to resolve the issue. If a satisfactory resolution cannot be reached, the student
shall report the grievance and the result of the meeting with the staff member, in writing,
to the Dean of Student Affairs who will convene a committee to hear the case.
The committee will consist of a member of the Student Affairs Advisory
Committee and the student’s advisor. The committee will be chaired by the Dean of
Student Affairs. If one of the regular committee members is involved in the grievance,
another appropriate faculty or staff member will be appointed. If the Dean of Student
Affairs is included in the grievance, the student should report the grievance to President.
Reporting Responsibilities of Faculty and Staff:
Faculty and staff are responsible for reporting any and all violations of Andrew
College Academic Policy as well as violations of the Andrew College Social Code and
Andrew College Student Code of Conduct. Violations of the Andrew College Honor
Code and Academic Policies must be reported immediately to the Dean of Academic
Affairs. Violations of Andrew College Social Code and Student Code of Conduct must
be reported immediately to the Dean of Student Affairs. Violations of misconduct by
Andrew College personnel must be immediately reported to the Vice President for
Finance.
Reporting Sexual Misconduct-Sexual Harassment or Sexual Assault:
If you experience or witness sexual or other unlawful harassment in the
workplace, classroom, in or on college-owned or college-controlled property or at
college-sponsored events, Andrew College encourages you to report it immediately
according to policy. You can raise concerns and make reports without fear of reprisal or
retaliation. Andrew College prohibits any form of discipline or retaliation for reporting in
good faith incidents of perceived harassment in violation of this policy, pursuing any such
claim, or cooperating in the investigation of such reports.
All allegations of harassment or discrimination, including, but not limited to, any
conduct that may violate Andrew College's Equal Employment Opportunity Policy or
Sexual Harassment Policy, or which may be contrary to Andrew College's Notice of Nondiscrimination, will be quickly and discretely investigated. To the extent possible, your
confidentiality and that of any witnesses and the alleged harasser will be protected against
unnecessary disclosure. When the investigation is completed, the complainant and the
alleged harasser will be informed concurrently of the outcome of the investigation.
Any Andrew College official who becomes aware of possible sexual or other
unlawful harassment must immediately advise the Dean of Student Affairs or the Title IX
Coordinator so the incident can be investigated in a timely manner. Upon completion of
the investigation, corrective measures will be taken. These measures may include, but are
not limited to, training, counseling, warning, suspension, expulsion or immediate
dismissal. Anyone, regardless of status, position or title, found through investigation to
have engaged in improper conduct will be subject to discipline up to and including
discharge or expulsion.
152

In all instances, reports of sexual harassment, domestic violence, dating violence
and/or stalking involving students, minors, staff and/or faculty will be reported to the
Title IX Coordinator, Jennifer Mitchell, located in the Business Office at 67 McDonald
Avenue, Cuthbert, Georgia 39840 or 229-732-5946.
Any concerns regarding the health, safety, and well-being of students
should be immediately reported to the Office of Student Affairs.
The Office of Academic Affairs, Office of Student Affairs, and the Office of the
Vice President for Finance (Business Office) will each maintain a record of all written
complaints that have been received from students, along with documentation of how the
complaint was addressed. These records will be retained for a period of three years and
redacted records will be available for review for any accreditation or regulatory purposes.

153

Section 12.0

Facilities/Equipment Use Policies<<<SECTION>>>

Facilities Description:
A virtual tour of the campus facilities and Facility Use Waiver Form are both
available on the College’s website.
Albert and Delorease Parker Physical Education Building:
The Parker Physical Education Building was constructed in 1966 and contains
offices for the athletic team coaches, athletic training/treatment room, and three
classrooms used for academic instruction.
Charlotte and Idus Rhodes Science and Computer Center:
The Charlotte and Idus Rhodes Science and Computer Center was completed in
1985 and serves as the academic center for math, science, and computer instruction.
Don Abbott Turner Dining Hall:
The Don Abbott Turner Dining Hall was constructed in 1984. The Don Abbott
Turner Dining Hall is located at the north end of the campus. The food service
operation, managed by ARAMARK Food Services, provides a wide variety of choices
that reflect the lifestyle of today's college student.
The dining hall is open to the public, and individuals may purchase meals at any
time. Andrew College employees receive a discount for themselves and their families and
are encouraged to take advantage of this opportunity. Catering service is available
through the management of the food service operation. The staff is able to assist with
planning any kind of special event and is able to provide a full array of catering options.
Focus Lab:
Andrew College is committed to providing equal educational opportunities for all
students while facilitating a successful and positive college experience. One of the
responsibilities of the College is to help integrate students with disabilities into the
academic and social process so that they may enjoy a full college experience. At Andrew
College, the Director of Disability Services is the designated person to coordinate
disability services for students with disabilities. Students with disabilities must selfdisclose their disabilities to the Director of Disability Services to be certified eligible for
services. The Office of Disability Services is located at 45 McDonald Avenue and the
Director of Disability Services may be reached at 229-732-5908 or 229-732-5906.
Frances Clark and Ernest Arlington Fort Hall:
Fort Hall was completed in 2000 and serve as the women’s residence hall. Rooms
are arranged as suites with a shared bathroom between the two rooms. Each room has
internet and telephone access. There are common areas containing amenities for students
to socialize and study.
The G. Clyde and Ruth Tarrer Jinks, Sr. Physical Education Complex:
The Jinks Physical Education Complex was constructed in 1986 as an extension
to the Parker Building and contains the gym, racquetball courts, free weight room, and
dressing rooms. The swimming pool is adjacent to the building.

154

Gilbert Field:
The Gilbert Athletic Field in 2007 was named in honor of Crispin and Jimmy
Gilbert, and serves as the venue for intramural activities on campus and for varsity
soccer games held at night.
Hord Athletic Field:
Hord Athletic Field was constructed in 1999. The facility is located
approximately one mile west of the main campus and is the site of the College’s
varsity baseball, softball, and soccer fields.
Jamison Center:
The Jamison Center is located across the street from Old Main and
presently houses the instructional area for art instruction.
McDonald House:
The McDonald House is located on Lumpkin Street approximately one
block from the campus and serves as the residence of the President of the College.
Mitchell Hall:
Mitchell Hall was built in 1967. Rooms are arranged as suites with a shared
bathroom between the two rooms. Each room has internet and telephone access. There
are common areas containing amenities for students to socialize and study.
Old Main Administration Building:
In 1892, the existing Andrew Female College buildings burned; however, funds
were raised immediately by the people of Cuthbert, and “Old Main,” the present
administration building, was constructed. Warren Bush Hall, the first classroom building,
was constructed in 1900 and Cuthbert Hall was constructed in 1912, thereby joining
“Old Main” and Warren Bush into one unit.
Today Old Main and Cuthbert Hall house the following:
 Ground Level – Dean of Student Affairs/Office of Student Affairs, Deli,
Student Center, Police Department, Post Office, and Fitness Center
 2nd Level – Admission Office, Athletic Director’s Office, Development
Office, Liddie Murphy Theatre, and President’s Office
 3rd Level – Office of Academic Affairs, Registrar’s Office, and a number
of faculty offices
 The rest of the areas are unused or used for storage
 Warren Bush Hall is presently unused and scheduled for renovation
The Phyllis and Jack Jones Chapel:
The Phyllis and Jack Jones Chapel was built in 2001. The lower level of the
building houses the Andrew College AndrewServes Servant Leadership offices and two
academic classrooms.
Pitts Library:
The Pitts Library was constructed in 1967. In addition to the typical stacks and
reading areas the library contains a large mediated classroom, an archive room,
instructional development room, and the main computer server room.
Reid Center:
The Reid Center is located just east of the Parker Building and houses
the Business Office and financial functions of the College.

155

Ira Pierce and Elizabeth Ragan Rhodes Hall:
Rhodes Hall was constructed in 1963 and currently serves as a co-ed residence
hall with the males residing on the second floor and females on the first floor. Rooms
are arranged as suites with a shared bathroom between the two rooms. Each room has
internet and telephone access. There are common areas containing amenities for
students to socialize and study.
Student Success Center:
The Student Success Center (SSC) is a one-stop-shop for the most
comprehensive academic support services available at Andrew College. This center is
open to all students and offers professional tutoring, career exploration, and transition
planning. The center sponsors academic success workshops and supplemental
instruction along with tutoring in the residence halls. The mission of the SSC is to
increase retention, persistence, and graduation rates through implementation of
academic and student support initiatives. The SSC is funded through a Title III federal
grant from the U.S. Department of Education. The Student Success Center Office is
located in The Success House, next to the Reid Center.
Suarez Fine Arts Building:
The present building was constructed in 1948 as the original Pitts Library but in
1967 was remodeled into the Suarez Fine Arts Building. The building currently houses a
performance area, practice rooms, and three offices for fine arts faculty.<<<SECTION>>>
<<<SECTION>>>

Maintenance Requests:
The custodial and maintenance service on campus is performed by an outside
contractor; National Management Resources Corporation. In order to provide an
effective and prompt response to the institution-at-large, the maintenance contractor
operates on an electronic work order system; SchoolDude. This system allows the
manager to prioritize needs and make the appropriate assignments based upon the skills
required. The request also provides for a means of evaluation and follow-up. When you
require the services of the custodial/maintenance department, please complete in detail
the work order. In instances where time is of the essence, you should call Cord Carson
at 706- 594-4787 or send Cord an email at charlescarson@andrewcollege.edu. In case of
a maintenance emergency, the Vice President for Finance at 229-732-5927 or any senior
administrator. If after hours, call the on-duty maintenance contractor at 229-310-0468.
Parking Policy:
Motor Vehicle Registration and Parking Policy:
Faculty and staff driving a vehicle on the Andrew College campus are required to register the
vehicle with the Andrew College Police Department (ACPD) within 48 hours of the vehicle being on
campus. A free parking decal that must be displayed in the lower left corner of the rear windshield will be
provided. Vehicle use on sidewalks, non-paved areas and campus lawns is prohibited.
Individuals who are issued a parking citation have two weeks to either pay the
citation or make arrangements to pay the citation. Payment or arrangements to make
payment will be made with the ACPD.
ACPD are empowered to issue citations for any traffic offense under the State
of Georgia motor vehicle impoundment device or towed. If the vehicle is either
immobilized or towed, the students must report to the ACPD. All fines must be paid
before the vehicle is released to the students and/or allowed on campus if towed. All
towing and storage fees are the sole responsibility of the student. Accumulations of
parking tickets or traffic violations may result in revocation of vehicle privileges on
campus.
156

A Traffic Appeals Committee, appointed by the Dean of Student Affairs, will
meet on an ad-hoc basis to hear traffic appeals. The committee will consist of a faculty
member, a staff member, and a senator from SGA. The decision of the Traffic Appeals
Committee is final and without appeals rights.
The College DOES NOT accept responsibility or liability for
automobiles or their contents while parked on campus.<<<SECTION>>>

Use of Equipment:
Faculty and staff members are responsible for items issued to them by Andrew
College or in their possession or control (i.e. tools, credit cards, keys). Persons that are
issued College property may not lend it to others for their use. Keys may not be copied.
Copying of keys is considered a serious violation of College policy. All Andrew College
property must be returned immediately upon request or upon termination of
employment.
Explicit permission is required before using College equipment unless the
equipment has been placed in the custody of the employee. Personal use of College
property, equipment, or vehicles is prohibited. When using College property, equipment,
or vehicles, faculty and staff members are expected to exercise care, perform or report
required maintenance, and follow all operating instructions, safety standards, and
guidelines. Equipment and vehicles should be returned on time, clean and to its proper
location. Keys should be returned to the issuing office.
Employees should notify the maintenance supervisor if any equipment,
machines, tools, or vehicles appear to be damaged, defective, or in need of repairs.
Prompt reporting of damages, defects, and the need for repairs could prevent
deterioration of equipment and possible injury to others. The improper, careless,
negligent, destructive, or unsafe use or operation of equipment or vehicles, as well as
excessive or avoidable traffic and parking violations, can result in disciplinary action, up
to and including termination of employment.
<<<SECTION>>>

Use of Vehicles:<<<SECTION>>> Requirements:
Faculty and staff members may schedule the use of College vehicles for
authorized and approved College business. Students and non-employees are never
allowed to drive College vehicles. In order to become qualified to operate a College
vehicle the employee must:
 Have a valid driver’s license from their state of residence
 Complete the driver’s safety course offered by the College and administered
by the Chief of Police
 Submit to an annual check of their driving history
 Be a current employee of the College
 Any person convicted by a court in the U. S. of any of the following offenses
will be disqualified from operating a College vehicle: D.U.I., Reckless Driving,
Homicide by Vehicle, Hit and Run, Leaving the Scene of an Accident with
Injuries or Damage, Drag Racing, or Speeding in excess of 20 miles over the
speed limit
 Seat belt usage is required in all College-owned, leased or rented vehicles
 All drivers must obey the guidelines of the “Hands Free Georgia Act” when using
wireless communication devices.
157
<<<SECTION>>> Procedure:
The College does not maintain a pool of vehicles for general use. Some vehicles
are funded by a specific program which limits their availability for non-program use.
Those vehicles without limitations are scheduled on a first-come, first-served
basis. Procedures are as follows:
 Employees must obtain permission to drive College owned vehicles by
scheduling the vehicle in advance with the assigned representative from the
Office of Student Affairs and providing the necessary budget information to the
appropriate office
 Requests for vehicle use must be made by phone, email, or in person at least two
days prior to the date of departure
 The person scheduling the vehicle is responsible for obtaining the key from
Andrew College Police Department during normal business hours and is
responsible for returning the key, not more than one day following scheduled
return. DO NOT pass the key to anyone else
 The vehicles must be returned in good condition. All trash should be removed.
Maintenance problems and accidents are to be reported immediately to the
Maintenance Department and to the Vice President for Finance
 Vehicles MUST be returned with a full tank of gasoline and parked in
the designated parking lot
 An Andrew College Vehicle Use Expense Form must be completed, signed by the
appropriate department head and submitted to the Business Office at the time
the key is returned. These forms are available in the office of Andrew College
Police Department or can be found at F:\Shared Memo & Forms
 Department use of the College vehicles will be charged to the indicated
account number by a Business Office Journal Entry. Please check with the
Business Office for the current rates per mile
 In the event K-12 students are transported by college vans, a signed
permission waiver must be obtained from parents or guardians, and all safety
requirements must be observed.
 All College vehicles are NON-TOBACCO USE VEHICLES<<<SECTION>>>

Use of Buildings:
Use of the College facilities for College functions and other College business
must be coordinated through the Events Coordinator who contacts the following:
 Dean of Academic Affairs: Academic areas including Classrooms, Library
and Auditorium
 Athletic Director: Parker and Jinks Buildings and Hord Athletic Field
 Dean of Student Affairs: Residence Halls, Student Center, Intramural Field,
Swimming Pool, Fitness Center
 Vice President for Finance: All other grounds and facilities
All third party use of College facilities must be approved by and coordinated
through the Events Coordinator and cabinet official denoted above, who is responsible
for assuring that necessary agreements and insurance are obtained, and that the
scheduled activities are consistent with College goals and objectives. As a matter of
policy Andrew College does not “rent” its facilities to individuals or to organizations for
a “for-profit” activity.

158
<<<SECTION>>>

Use of Buildings – Alcohol Policy:
Andrew College prohibits the possession or consumption of alcoholic
beverages on its campus and sports fields. This prohibition does not apply to College
owned houses serving as employee residences and which are separate from student
housing and activity. The College President may serve alcoholic beverages during
functions on College owned property to anyone of legal age. Minors (including
students) should not be invited to these functions. While employees in College owned
houses may possess, serve, and consume alcoholic beverages under this policy, they are
expected to do so in a responsible manner and one which does not reflect unfavorably
on the College. Employees may not serve alcohol at functions in their residence at
which Andrew College students are in attendance.
<<<SECTION>>>

Use of Keys
Various faculty and staff members in the College community are issued keys to
enable them to perform their assigned job responsibilities. The acceptance of the key(s)
by the individual places a heavy responsibility on the employee to observe strict security
and operational procedures in the usage of the key(s).
Persons issued keys that allow them access to areas other than their individual
work area should recognize that they have additional responsibilities and considerations.
These responsibilities and considerations vary with the different area classifications:
 Public: Areas such as lobbies, classrooms, offices, etc. These areas are usually
opened and closed at scheduled times and the primary consideration is the
safeguarding of property
Private: Areas such as individual offices, bookstore, and storage rooms, etc.
Persons having access to these areas that are not assigned to them, should limit
access to specific, job related needs. The employee should understand that these
areas usually have valuable equipment, other employee’s personal property
and/or confidential material; and that additional care and security should be
observed when working in these areas
Personal: Are living areas for staff or students. The employee should
understand that these areas are the “homes” of people and that while it remains
College property, we need to limit our access to specific, job related needs.
Furthermore, for the protection of both the employee and resident and barring
an emergency, authorization by and/or notification of the employee’s
supervisor should be obtained before entering the area. An attempt to notify the
resident either by telephone, intercom or by knocking should be made before
entering the area and an explanation of the need to enter be given. In addition,
the employee must strictly observe the highest level of security while working in
the area and insure that the area is locked when done.
Specifically the following are to be understood and observed:
 The key(s) remain the property of Andrew College and are to be returned if the
individual’s employment is terminated or upon request of the College. Copies of
the key(s) may not be made by a staff member
 The issued keys are for the use by the staff member only and may not be
“loaned” to others or used to give access to persons who are not
specifically authorized access to that area
 A staff member should report lost keys to his/her supervisor immediately. The
replacement of lost keys will be charge to the requesting department.
 Keys are to be used only in the performance of assigned job responsibilities and
159



may not be used to gain access to facilities for any other purpose not authorized
by the College
When a staff or faculty member uses an issued key to unlock an area, he/she
assumes the responsibility to secure and relock the area when leaving,
including the cutting off of lights, heat/ac, equipment, etc.

When a newly hired employee requires a key(s), the Business Office
representative will advise the Director of Plant Services. The Business Office
Representative will obtain the key(s) and issue them to the employee. The employee will
sign an acknowledgement statement that will be filed in a key issue log book that is
maintained by the Business Office Representative. The Business Office representative
will be provided a copy of that agreement to be filed in the employee’s personnel file and
will notify the Chief of Police when that employee ceases employment with Andrew
College so that the key(s) may be retrieved.

160
<<<SECTION>>>

Communications and Marketing<<<SECTION>>>

Required Approval:
In order to convey a uniform message in agreement with the College’s
mission statement, the Director of Communications and Marketing is appointed
to approve all College publications, press releases, and advertisements prior to
their dissemination.
<<<SECTION>>>

Use of Andrew College Logo/Trademark:
Andrew College has four official logos. These logos should not be
reproduced for promotional materials without formal permission from the
College.<<<SECTION>>> Approved Colors & Font:
In each instance the Andrew College logo is used, the official
colors, Blue PMS 295 and Gold PMS 124, should always be specified. The
only exceptions for not using the specified colors are printing
publications in black and white or reverse printing. All designs must be
approved by the Director of Communications and Marketing before
printing.<<<SECTION>>> The Andrew College Logo: There are two versions of the College Logo
and either one is acceptable to use. The choice is determined by space
availability or design.
<<<SECTION>>> The Andrew College Seal: The use of the Andrew College Seal is
reserved for presidential, academic, and board documents.

161
<<<SECTION>>>

The Andrew College Spire:
<<<SECTION>>>

The Andrew College Tiger Logo:
<<<SECTION>>>

Compliance with SACS Guidelines:
The Director of Communications and Marketing will assure that the
guidelines established by the SACS publication “Advertising, Student Recruitment and
Representation of Accredited Status” are followed in all College publications.
<<<SECTION>>>

Public Relations:
In the interest of long-term viability for Andrew College it is important to have a
strong and unified public relations effort. The Office of Communication and Marketing is
charged for enhancing the visibility of the College through media and church relations.
All public relation activities will be coordinated through the Office of Communication
and Marketing.

162

